The Project Gutenberg eBook of Japan
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: Japan
        The world's best histories

Author: Walter G. Dickson

Contributor: Gilson Willets

Release date: October 21, 2024 [eBook #74614]

Language: English

Original publication: United States: The Co-operative Publication Society

Credits: D A Alexander, David E. Brown, Natrona County Library, Casper, WY, and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK JAPAN ***


[Illustration: MUTSUHITO, MIKADO OF JAPAN]




  THE WORLD’S BEST HISTORIES

  [Illustration]

  JAPAN

  BY
  WALTER DICKSON

  WITH A SUPPLEMENTARY
  CHAPTER OF RECENT EVENTS
  BY GILSON WILLETS

  WITH AN ACCURATELY DRAWN CHART GIVING A BIRD’S-EYE
  VIEW OF THE SCENE OF THE WAR IN THE EAST

  _ILLUSTRATED_

  [Illustration]

  THE CO-OPERATIVE PUBLICATION SOCIETY
  NEW YORK AND LONDON




HISTORY OF JAPAN




CONTENTS


                             CHAPTER I
  THE IMPERIAL FAMILY AND COURT                                  9

                             CHAPTER II
  THE EIGHT BOARDS OF GOVERNMENT                                55

                            CHAPTER III
  HISTORY OF THE EMPIRE TO THE DEATH OF NOBU NANGA              78

                             CHAPTER IV
  GOVERNMENT OF TAIKOSAMA                                      124

                             CHAPTER V
  GOVERNMENT OF IYEYAS                                         160

                             CHAPTER VI
  HISTORY TO THE EXPULSION OF CHRISTIANITY                     176

                            CHAPTER VII
  THE LAWS OF IYEYAS                                           192

                            CHAPTER VIII
  THE POSITION AND COURT OF THE SHIOGOON                       223

                             CHAPTER IX
  THE DAIMIOS                                                  228

                             CHAPTER X
  THE DAIMIO CLASS                                             279

                             CHAPTER XI
  THE HISTORY OF THE EMPIRE CONTINUED                          288

                            CHAPTER XII
  EVENTS FOLLOWING THE ABOLITION OF THE SHIOGOONATE            363

                            CHAPTER XIII
  THE FOREIGN POLICY OF NEW JAPAN AND THE WAR WITH CHINA       374

                            CHAPTER XIV
  TWENTIETH CENTURY JAPAN AND THE WAR WITH RUSSIA              385

                             CHAPTER XV
  THE WAR WITH RUSSIA, AND JAPAN A WORLD POWER                 409




PREFACE


In the preparation of the following Work the Author has to acknowledge
the assistance which he has received from a Japanese gentleman in
Yokohama, whose name, for obvious reasons, it is prudent not to mention.

With his knowledge of the history and institutions of his country,
the Author was able to fill up the blanks in short notices of history
contained in elementary Japanese books. He was further enabled to go
over the red-books of the empire, which enter into the details of the
pedigrees of illustrious families, and into the minutiæ of Government
offices.

The supposed unalterable character of these institutions induces those
who have any pretensions to learning in China and Japan to master and
retain by memory the names and duties of the different offices in the
various departments of Government; and they are frequently found to
be good authorities upon questions upon which there is no published
information.

In the history of the intercourse of the Jesuits with Japan, the
letters of the fathers have been almost the only authorities relied
upon; while in the more recent events contemporary publications have
been used.

In taking notes from the conversation of a Japanese who could speak but
little English, in too many cases they were written down in what is
known in China as “pigeon English”; and the Author has to acknowledge
and regret that in many cases the cramped nature of the notes has not
been entirely removed, and for such instances he craves the indulgence
of the reader.




HISTORY OF JAPAN




CHAPTER I

THE IMPERIAL FAMILY AND COURT


Man, in the earlier periods of his existence, when he was as yet
putting forth his juvenile strength to subdue creation, was ever
inclined to look upon the great forces of nature as difficulties in
his path and obstacles to his progress, which, in his more mature
strength, he has come to regard as aids to help him, and to cherish as
the very means to the attainment of his ends. Such an object of awe
to the earlier mariner was the great ocean, when he had no compass to
guide him over its unknown and apparently boundless expanse, and with
no knowledge of the winds and no experience of the currents. When he
had no means of keeping food or fresh water for any great length of
time, he was a bold man who would venture far out of sight of land.
Provided with the faithful compass, men became bolder; they enlarged
their vessels, making longer voyages, until they ran over the length
and breadth of the Eastern seas. Still the China Sea, with its typhoons
and its monsoons and currents, down to a comparatively recent period,
was looked upon as an obstacle which was to be smoothed down and not
to be wrestled with. To beat up the China Sea against the northeastern
monsoon was considered a rash struggle and a fool hardy waste of time,
and in consequence the trade-voyages to China were confined to vessels
going up the sea in summer with the southerly monsoon and returning
in winter with the northerly. Obstacles such as these made mariners
unwilling to run the risk of pushing up the sea the length of Shanghai
or Japan, when the time of their return was a matter of so much doubt.

In the present age, when man is thinking himself of some importance
from the little odds and ends of knowledge he has stored up, the
ocean, instead of being a barrier of separation between islands and
continents, has become what the Mediterranean Sea was to the Old
World--a link of connection, a highway of commerce, and steam has
become a bridge by which distant shores have been joined together. The
world is now finding out that she is one--that the interests of nations
are one, and that no one part of the body can say to the other, “I have
no need of thee.” If Japan has hitherto felt herself in a position to
use such an expression to her fellow-members of the body cosmopolitan,
and the feeling has been responded to by their acquiescence, the time
and circumstances seem to have arrived when this seclusion is to be
ended. The distance at which these islands seemed to lie from the heart
of the world’s circulation, Europe, has been almost annihilated, and
European nations have through the settlements in India and China crept
up alongside of the isles of the East. The difficulties of access have
been smoothed away, her sumptuary laws have been abrogated, while
the produce of her rich soil is daily increasing to meet the demands
which are made upon it, and which she is becoming willing and ready to
exchange for that of which she is more in need.

Steam has been the active agent in bringing about these changes,
causing the pulses of trade to beat with greater frequency and with
increased vigor. But to any one who looks below the surface there may
be seen other agents at work, all concurring at this crisis in the
world’s existence to produce changes of portentous magnitude. The
discoveries of chemistry, whether by the aggressive forces obtained in
the manufacture of munitions of war, or by the more widely extended
but silent beneficial operations of such an agent as quinine, steam
with all its ramifications of wealth, the telegraph with its tenfold
power of convertibility, the discovery of gold at the most remote
parts of the world, have combined to produce, by the sudden influx of
real wealth, by the intermingling of ranks of men, and by the rapid
throwing into men’s minds of a quantity of information or of knowledge,
a condition of things in the mass which makes that mass kneadable by
those who can knead it, and fitted for the reception of any leaven, for
good or for evil, which may be mixed with it. The mingling of ranks
in the social system, the disturbance of creeds in the religious, the
confounding of parties in the political, are preparing the way for some
world-wide change, by which old systems are to be done away and new
established. It is not working in one nation alone, but in all: it is
not confined to Christendom, showing that the time to come is not to
be like times past; but that the time is coming when it is possible
for one person to aim at one rule over the whole world. This change
is coming up like the rising of water. It may overwhelm all existing
things like a wave. Some call it Progress, others Democracy, but,
whatever it be, it is evident that every existing institution is to get
such a shaking that only the things that cannot be shaken will stand.

All national institutions having, or pretending to have, order, will
probably have to undergo this trial; and when it comes the whole
remains of the feudal system will be tested: monarchies, the peerage,
tenures of land, orders in the Church, and, above all, the question
of primogeniture, cannot fail to be put on trial. The different
sections in the religious and political world seem gradually separating
themselves into two large parties, the one standing for the _vox
Dei_, the other holding the _vox populi_ to be the _vox Dei_--the one
believing that power comes from above, the other that power comes from
below.

The leaven is working in the minds of men, whether they will it or not;
and no nation will feel the effects of this fermentation more than
Japan. Above all nations, she to this hour retains her feudal system
intact. She must learn, as others have in past times and may have to
learn again, at the expense of revolution and blood. The people are
already being stirred, and dare to question. The nobles are beginning
to quake, they know not why, in the face of changes which are being
forced upon them. The very throne of the emperor is being searched and
shaken.

In order to understand where the weakness of a building lies, or how
it is likely to fall down, it is first necessary to know how it is
constructed; and in order to comprehend the changes which events may
bring about in Japan, some idea must be formed of the government of the
country. Without some knowledge of the framework of the constitution,
it is difficult to understand the relative position of men, or to
appreciate the operation of external agents upon the system of the
empire, whether that operation work by a slow process of leavening from
within, or by a violent concussion from without.

The aim of the author in the following pages has been to give some idea
of the framework of the constitution of Japan. Having resided for some
little time in the country, he was enabled to get what seemed to him a
clearer glimpse of the working of the different parts of the machinery
of State than was to be gained from any of the able works published on
the subject. The time at his command was too short, and his knowledge
of the language too limited, to enable him to do more than prepare a
sketch which may serve a temporary purpose, before works of greater
research and fuller information are produced.

The position of the Emperor (Spiritual Emperor, as he is sometimes
erroneously called), as the first in the empire, must be recognized;
the office held by the Temporal Emperor, the Shiogoon (or Tycoon, as
he has been named), must be correctly and distinctly understood before
the nature of the rule in the empire can be comprehended. It is further
essential that the student should be acquainted with the rank and
position of the nobility or nobilities of the empire (for of these
there are two classes)--that of Miako at the court of the Emperor, the
Koongays; and that of Yedo at the court of the Shiogoon, the Daimio,
and beneath them the Hattamoto. Without some knowledge of these the
reader is lost in a maze of unmeaning names and titles; but with a
slight acquaintance with the rank, offices, and names of these nobles,
he is able not only to follow the thread of history, but to understand
the intricacies of current events.

A description of a picture by a native artist, seen by the author
of this volume, may give some idea of the relation in which these
dignitaries stand the one to the other. The upper half of the picture
represents the Shiogoon or Tycoon at the palace in the capital, Miako,
making his obeisance and performing homage before his liege lord the
Emperor, seated in the great hall, Shi shin den, of the palace. The
upper part of the Emperor’s person is concealed behind a screen of thin
slips of bamboo hanging from the roof. The throne is three mats, or
thin mattresses, placed one above the other upon the floor. There is no
chair or support to the back. On each side of the Emperor sit on their
knees on the floor the high officers of his court. Before him is seen
the late Shiogoon, kneeling and prostrating himself, with his head to
the floor. Behind the Shiogoon are his high officers Stotsbashi and the
great Daimio Owarri, both in a similar position of prostration; while
beneath, in the open court, are military officials of the Imperial
Court standing or kneeling. This picture represents accurately a fact,
and what appears to be a correct illustration of the ideas of the
people of Japan with regard to the relative status of the Emperor and
the Shiogoon.

It may almost be a matter of wonder that so little was known of Japan
until the advent of the Portuguese. Men were in old times adventurous
travelers, and yet, except what is contained in the pages of Marco
Polo, written in the thirteenth century, nothing more was known of the
existence of the country. The Buddhism of India had permeated China,
Corea, and Japan, but it brought nothing back. Mohammedanism, at an
early stage, reached China, and gained many converts, and the Arabs
carried on an extensive trade with China and the Eastern Isles; but
neither by their writings nor by the early native accounts do they
seem to have reached the shores of Japan, or, at least, ever to have
returned from them. This may perhaps be attributed to the wars of
the Crusades, which appear to have lighted up such a fierce feeling
between the Christian and the Moslem as to have proved a barrier to
the inquisitiveness of the former in his investigations regarding the
East. When the Portuguese, in the beginning of the sixteenth century,
had pushed their discoveries and trade as far as Malacca, and thence to
China, it was to be expected that such adventurous seamen as they then
were would, before long, solve the question of a people living under
the rising sun. It is fortunate that, among the lawless buccaneers
and pirates, as they evidently were, on those seas during this time,
one man, Mendez Pinto, should have been found with the zeal to write
some account of the doings on the Sea of China, and to lift the veil
which, until he wrote, hung over the events which he records. That
the latter part of his narrative, relating principally to China,
should have been called mendacious, is not to be wondered at. But all
that he relates with reference to Japan is not only corroborated by
a closer acquaintance with the country and people, but also by the
native historians in their accounts of the arrival of foreigners in the
country, as well as by the letters of the Jesuits who visited Japan
very shortly after it was first discovered by the Portuguese traders.

Subsequently to the period at which Mendez Pinto wrote, the history
of foreign relations with the country is kept up by the letters of
priests and Jesuits who occupied Japan as a field for the spread
of Christianity. In the “Histoire de l’Église du Japon” there is
an excellent summary of occurrences connected with the Church, its
missions, its successes, its difficulties, its martyrs, and its
enemies, together with a glance at events in Japan during the most
eventful crisis in the history of the country. After the expulsion of
the Jesuits and Roman Catholic doctrines from the empire, there are
accounts from time to time published by the officers connected with
the establishment kept up by Holland at Nagasaki. Caron, Fischer,
Meylan--but, above all, Kæmpfer and Thunberg, and Titsingh and
Klaproth--and, in our own times, Siebold--have done much to elucidate
the manners and customs and natural history of Japan.

Kæmpfer has given a most interesting and instructive account of what
he saw in the country during a long residence, and upon more than
one progress to the courts at Miako and Yedo. His delineation of the
manners and customs of the people of Japan will remain as a memorial of
a state of things seen under circumstances not likely to occur again.
But the work was published by another after the death of the author,
and, in consequence of this, many of the names of men, places and
things are nearly unintelligible. Kæmpfer’s work is well known to the
Japanese, having been translated or repeatedly copied in manuscript,
and is known as “Su koku rong.” It is an interdicted book, and only
recently a man was punished upon being detected in the act of copying
the translation. The translation by Klaproth of the “Annales des
Empereurs de Japon” is a most valuable work, and contains a wonderful
amount of information, being, as it were, the complement of Kæmpfer’s
work, drawn entirely from books and not from personal observation.

The natives of Japan appear to have an intense love and reverence for
their own country, and every individual in the empire seems to have a
deep and thorough appreciation of the natural beauties and delights
of the country. To this the genial climate, the rich soil, and the
variety of the surface contribute. The islands lie at such a latitude
as to make the air in summer warm without being hot, and in winter cold
without being raw. The soil, as in all recent lava soils, is of a rich
black mould, raising the finest crops of millet, wheat and sugar-cane,
and when supplied in unstinted profusion rearing splendid timber, or
capable, when nearly entirely withdrawn, of keeping life and vigor
and seeding power in a pine tree of two inches in height. The trees
have a tendency to break out into excrescences from plethora. The
variety of surface arises from the great height to which the mountains
rise in an island which at no part presents so great a breadth as
England, and yet slopes gradually from the mountain tops to the sea.
Some of these ridges appear to rise to the height of Mont Blanc, one
of them, Fusiyama, being upward of thirteen thousand feet in height,
and it would appear that other ranges are higher. The great beauty of
Fusi (_pah rh_, not two) consists in its rising singly out of a low
country with a beautifully curved sweep to a conical apex; and the
atmospheric effects changing from hour to hour, as it is seen from
thirteen provinces, give such a variety to this single object that it
is rightly called by a name to express the feeling that there are not
two such in the world. The variations of atmospheric density make it
look at one time much higher than at another. It may be seen with its
head clear in the blue sky rising out of a thick base of clouds--or the
clouds rise and roll in masses about the middle, leaving the gentle
curve to be filled up by the mind’s eye from the base to the apex.
Again, the whole contour, in a sort of proud, queenly sweep, stands out
against a cloudless ether, or with a little vapor drifting to leeward
of the summit giving the appearance of a crater--or, after a cool night
in September, the eye is arrested by the appearance of the bursting
downward of a flattened shell, the pure white snow filling the valleys
from the top, the haze of the morning half concealing the hill beneath.
Every hour brings a change upon a landscape which consists of a single
object which the lover of nature can never weary of admiring, in a
climate where seventy miles of atmosphere does not obscure the larger
features on the face of the mountain even to the naked eye. How often
would such an object be visible in the climate of England?

The first settlement of inhabitants upon an island is always a
subject of interesting speculation and inquiry. The insular position
gives an idea of a definite time or period at which the peopling of
a large island must have taken place. The freedom of possession of
boundless wealth presents every inducement to the immigrant to remain,
while distance and difficulties repel the idea of return. In Japan
this immigration may in all probability have commenced by a gradual
spreading from the north of inhabitants of Manchuria through the
islands of Saghalien and Jezo to those of the Japanese group.

During the earlier periods of a nation’s existence, the art of writing
has been generally kept in the hands of men who have devoted themselves
to a life of retirement and seclusion from the strife and temptations
of the outer world. These have been found among the priesthood, and
it has been their business or their amusement to gather up and commit
to writing what had been up to the time current as oral tradition in
regard to prehistoric occurrences. Men are forced by reasoning to refer
the appearance of their first ancestors to a creation by, or procession
from, a Divine Being. At the same time, those who have wielded the
power of writing, and thereby reached and influenced a larger circle of
their fellowmen, have generally endeavored to clothe the deities from
whom they profess to have sprung with virtues which were to be emulated
by their descendants, or to inculcate through them, by precept, a
purity of moral conduct to be practiced by their followers.

The group of islands generally included under the one name Japan was
known in remote times by a variety of names--“Akitsu sima, Toyo aki,
Toyo ashiwarra no nakatsa kooni.” “Wo kwo,” the country of peace, is
used by the Chinese for Japan. “Ho,” pronounced “Yamato,” and used for
one province, is frequently applied in Japan to the whole country.

The name Nippon--Nits pon--“Yutpone” in Cantonese, “Jih pun” in the
Mandarin dialect, by which the whole empire is now known--is of
Chinese origin, and has probably been conveyed to the country by the
first Chinese settlers. Denoting, as the name implies, that it is
the country where the sun rises, the idea must have originated with
the people to the west. “Hon cho,” another name by which it is known,
conveys the same idea, “The beginning or root of the morning.” The name
“Yamato,” peaceful, harmonious, was more likely to have originated
with the natives. “Akitsu sima” implies that the island resembles a
dragonfly in shape, and was at first applied to Kiusiu alone. “Shin
koku,” a name by which the Japanese speak of their own empire, means
the land of spirits; and a similar idea is conveyed by the name “Kami
no kooni.” “Awadsi sima” refers to the supposed origin of the islands
from mud or froth, and is still applied to the large island lying
between Nippon and Sikok.

Some of these names probably retain the old words used by the original
inhabitants of the country translated into Chinese by the new
immigrants. To these newcomers it was no doubt a work of pleasure to
gather up what stores of tradition were floating among the inhabitants
of the country, and, adding thereto much from their own imagination, to
compose a mythology suited to the genius of the people. This mythology,
which we may suppose to have been composed by some of the Chinese
_literati_ about the court, had for its object the elevation of the
reigning family, and the assertion for that family of a divine origin
and divine ancestry. It is worthy of note that these divine ancestors
were known at a very early period by Chinese names, that of the mother
and founder of the imperial family being “Ten sho dai jin”--the “great
spirit of the celestial splendor of the sun,” four distinct Chinese
words.

According to this mythology, the heavens and the earth having formed
themselves out of nothing, gave forth a spirit--a “kami”--who was the
father of a line of seven generations of spiritual beings who ruled
the universe as it then was, during a period extending over millions
of years, ending in a male and a female, respectively named Issanaghi
and Issanami. These seem equivalents to or representatives of the male
and the female principles which, according to the Chinese, pervade
all animate creation. They are allegorically represented as producing
the islands of Japan, the mountains, seas and other natural objects
therein. Subsequently a daughter was brought forth, “Ten sho dai jin,”
who is the spirit of the sun; and another, “Tsuki no kami,” the spirit
of the moon. These divinities are of no further importance in history
than as serving to make a line of ancestry for the reigning family. At
the time when, according to tradition, the genealogy merged in mortal
men, the country was found to be peopled, and there is no attempt to
show whence these people came, though described as hairy, uncivilized,
and living in the open air. These myths are generally of a Buddhistic
origin, and were probably brought over or invented by some missionary
of that religion at an early time, when the influence of India operated
strongly in the spread of its doctrines. This influence is shown to
this day in the repetition of prayers in an unknown language, and
the retention of an Indian alphabet and writing--the Sanskrit or
Devanagari--in all the religious works of Japan.

Some of these divinities are so frequently heard of, and
representations of them, in pictures and carvings, are so common,
that even a slight acquaintance with their names and attributes is
useful. The different Buddhas are worshiped; Compera; the five hundred
“Rakhan” or “Lohon”; the “Kwanon,” or goddess of mercy; and the “Stchi
fuku jing,” or seven gods of riches. These last are generally drawn
or carved on a boat, with emblems around them of long life, etc.--the
stork, tortoise, a deer, a bag of money, a fir-tree, a bamboo, a
crystal ball, a fish. Their names are--Hotay Daikoku, Yaybissu, Benten,
Gayho, Bistamong, Fukowo kojiu. But the religion is more or less
pantheistic, and there are many other gods and divinities, even down to
shapeless stones.

To “Ten sho dai jin” is attributed the origin of the imperial house,
as is shown by the words of the Emperor, in a letter recently written
on the political position of affairs, “I am grieved, standing as I do
between ‘Ten sho dai jin’ and my people.”

In the fifth generation after “Ten sho dai jin,” was born “Zinmu” or
“Jin mu” (Chin: Shinwu--_i.e._, spirit of war). He was the first of
the earthly or human rulers. He is said to have been born in Fiuga, a
mountainous province on the east side of Kiu siu, on the west coast
of the Boo ngo Channel. This part of the islands is well suited for
trading purposes, and it is also well adapted for the landing of an
invading force, and it is not unlikely that Zinmu either originally
came from China, or was the son of some Chinese who had settled there,
and who started thence on a design of conquest. At the time when he set
out upon his career, the people of the country are said to have been
hairy and uncivilized, but under the rule of a headman in each village.
The Japanese have to this day a great contempt for the people of Yezo,
who may be thus described, and they allege that similar tribes occupied
the whole of the islands, and that they were gradually driven back
before the armies of Zinmu. It is more likely that they were conquered,
and gradually amalgamated with their conquerors by the intermarriage of
these with native females, and that in this way, and by the effects of
the warm climate of the south, they lost that hirsute appearance which
is so characteristic of the people of Yezo.--Aino, the name given to
the hairy inhabitants of Yezo by the Japanese, means “between,” and has
reference to a contemptuous idea of the origin of these people from
a dog.--There are two strongly-marked varieties of feature in Japan,
which are always strikingly portrayed in their own pictures. There is
the broad flat face of the lower classes, and the high nose and oval
face of the higher. The difference is so marked as to be some argument
in favor of a previous mixing of two different races; the one of which
had extended southward from the Kurile Islands and Siberia, hairy and
broad-featured; while the other had originated from the south, with
Indian features and smooth skins.

The Japanese themselves do not pretend that there is any native
documentary evidence in support of their history at the date of Zinmu,
and the best writers allow that no writings prior to the seventh
century are authentic. The introduction of Chinese letters into Japan
is generally attributed to Onin, a learned man who came from Corea
about the year 285 A.D. But prior to the date of Onin, many of the
names of offices and officers were Chinese. It is hardly credible that,
with the communication which is known to have existed at different
times between Japan and China, and also with Corea, there should have
continued for so long a time such complete ignorance. More than one
embassy had resided at the court of China for months. The Chinese
annals speak of an embassy during the reign of the Han dynasty, A.D.
238, when China was divided into “three kingdoms.” The ruler of Woo,
one of these three, proposed to invade Japan, but the expedition
miscarried. Nearly two centuries before this, in A.D. 57, an embassy
was sent from Japan to China by Sei nin, which arrived at the court of
Kwang ou, of the Eastern Han dynasty, in the last year of his reign.
It is unlikely that, residing as such an embassy must have done for a
considerable time at the court of China, they should not have brought
away some knowledge of letters or some instructors in reading and
writing. This Corean, Onin, may have been brought over to replace or to
reteach what had been lost: for in more recent times it is known that,
after the long civil wars of the fifteenth and sixteenth centuries,
so little attention had been given to the instruction of youth that
only two men were found in the empire competent to teach the written
language.

We may be permitted to believe that much of what became tradition had
at one time been committed to writing, and that, corroborated as it is
at some points by Chinese history, there is a foundation for much of
that part of history subsequent to the time of Zinmu, for the support
of which there existed, when writing recommenced, no documentary
evidence.


THE EMPEROR OF JAPAN

The line of gods carried on through godlike mortal descendants was
prolonged in ordinary mortals, the first of whom was Zinmu. It is of
little consequence by whom this pedigree was written or invented. It
evidently was solely written for the then _de facto_ rulers of the
land. It does not pretend to deal with the people of Japan, or with
the mode in which the peopling of the empire took place, but simply
invents and details a divine pedigree for one family. At the time when
this family is first heard of, the islands of Japan are acknowledged
by Japanese historians to have been already peopled and divided into
villages, each under some municipal rule.

The reign of Zinmu is the era of Japan, and is placed at 667 years
before Christ. Setting out from Miazaki in Fiuga, on the east side
of the island of Kiusiu, he with troops under his command gradually
overran that island, and the adjoining one of Sikok, together with
the west half of the island of Nippon, as far as the province of Mino
to the east of Miako. Coming from the most rugged and comparatively
barren province in the empire, he was attracted by the beauty and
desirableness of the country around Miako. He settled at a place named
Kashiwarra or Kashiwabarra, a site near the city of Narra, about
fifteen miles from the present capital. This choice of a site has been
ratified by every succeeding emperor, the Kio or capital (“King,”
Chinese) of the empire having been frequently changed, but never
removed to any great distance from the spot originally selected by
Zinmu.

In truth, the site is in every way most suitable for the capital of the
country. It is, geographically, nearly in the center of the islands
which constitute the empire. From the port of the capital, Osaka (or
Naniwa, as it was named of old), a great fringe of the coast of the
three islands in almost land-locked waters is accessible to ships
without their venturing into the open sea. To this port a large body
of water is rolled down by the confluence of several rivers, which
at one time were dispersed into several mouths and branches; but by
labor these have been collected and confined within two outlets. There
is, in consequence, a large extent of alluvial ground producing rice
and wheat for a numerous population. The inland water-communication
extends to the large lake Owomi--upward of sixty miles in length and
eighteen in breadth; and thence, with an interval of a few miles only
of land-carriage, to the port of Tsurunga, on the northern coast;
while to the southeast, the natives report that there is uninterrupted
water-communication to Owarri, and thence to Sinano, and, with a short
interval of land-carriage, even to Yedo--whence, again, it extends
northward by rivers and canals to the vicinity of Nambu. The city
of Miako of the present day stands on a plain, among hills clothed
with wood, where art has done what it could to assist nature in the
completion of landscape scenery, of the beauties of which the natives
speak with rapture. During twenty-four centuries, members of the family
of Zinmu have sat upon the throne, and during that long time the palace
has been only at short intervals removed to any considerable distance
from the site on which it at present stands.

The imperial residence in Japan is a very different structure from
anything that European ideas of palaces would expect, being chiefly
built of wood and other materials so inflammable that a palace has
been reconstructed and destroyed within a year. When we read of each
emperor, at an early date, building a palace for himself, it is not to
be supposed that these were either expensive or very durable buildings.
Each emperor seems to have occupied a different habitation from his
predecessor, removing from one site to another, but generally keeping
within the province of Yamashiro, or that adjoining, Yamato. Kwanmu, in
the year 794, built a palace on the site where the present city stands,
and since his time Miako has been always looked upon as the metropolis.

The palace of the Emperor of Japan is called, as a whole, “Kinri
go sho.” Though built of fine and expensive timber, it presents no
appearance of that outward splendor which is generally considered by us
to be necessary to an imperial residence. The roofs of the buildings
are said to be white. It is surrounded by a common inclosure of wooden
boarding. This inclosure is pierced by several gates. These entrances
are graduated, and the settlement of the gate by which a great man
shall make his entrance or his exit is a matter of no small importance
at court. These gates lead into a large open space; in this is another
inclosure (with other gates), in the center of which stands the wooden
building, the “Shi shin deng,” or imperial office, in which the emperor
receives the highest officers of the empire. This he appears to do
almost in the open air. The emperor does not sit upon a throne or
chair, but is slightly raised above the floor--three of the ordinary
mats of the country, placed one above the other, being used as a
throne. To the back of this public office is the residence or private
apartments of the emperor; and behind these are the female apartments
of the empress, the empress-mother, and other high ladies.

The “Shi shin deng” (Ch. “Tsz shin tien”) faces to the south, to the
large outer gate, the “Yio may mong”; within this is another gate of a
red inclosure, the gate of the sun, “Hi no go mong.” On passing through
this, the large wooden-pillar-supported hall, with its roof with
immense eaves, is seen raised from the ground upon a lower framework
of wood. Before it stand an orange and a cherry tree. Between these,
six steps lead up to the wooden gallery or veranda, which goes round
the hall under eaves projecting five or six feet from the supports. A
low balustrade surrounds this veranda. Under this large canopy of roof,
almost in the open air, the Emperor sits while he receives homage. The
“Shi shin deng” occupies the red inclosure, having on the east side
a small wooden building for covering the car used in processions; to
the east of that is the building in which the “three jewels” are kept,
the “Naishi dokoro.” Within the “Shi shin deng” all extraordinary
formal business of importance is transacted. The Shiogoon here presents
himself to the Emperor. In the long hall to the west of the “Shi shin
deng,” the “Say rio deng” (“Tsing liang tien”) or “Hiru no ma,” the
mid-day room, ordinary business is transacted. Immediately in the
rear of the “Shi shin deng” is the “Nai go bansho,” or inner hall for
business. To the east side, and overlooking the garden, is the “Tsunay
no goteng,” or hall of meeting, or drawing-room. Behind, in the “Ko ngo
sho,” the Emperor’s son and heir lives; here also are the apartments
of the elder women. “Nanga Hashi no Tsubo nay” is the room in which
levees are held, where rank is given, and degradations or punishments
are awarded. Formerly all the offices of the different departments of
government were in the neighborhood of the palace, but outside, at a
distance of one “cho,” or 120 yards.

At the back of all are the female apartments. On the east side, outside
of the inclosure, is the Gakumonjo, or imperial school.

To the southeast of the whole is another inclosure, the “Ko een go
sho,” the palace of the Emperor after he has abdicated, when he is
known as Kubo, covering a space of ground nearly as large as the
palace inclosure. Adjoining this, and immediately to the south, is the
residence of the father or predecessor of the abdicated emperor. He is
known as Sento (Tsin tung). To the southwest is that of the empress
dowager, and the females of the old emperor’s court. The Shi sin wo,
or four royal families, are located in the neighborhood, while all
around are the residences, with inclosures of ground, belonging to the
“Go sekkay,” or “five assisting” families. Among these also is found
a small inclosure, the residence of the Sho shi dai, the envoy of the
Shiogoon at the imperial court.

Except the greater elevation and whiteness of the roofs, there is
nothing to distinguish the palace from the adjacent streets. That
the Emperor should be thus housed probably involves a great state
principle. The houses of Daimios and high officers are built in a
much more durable manner. The Shiogoon’s residences at Osaka, Miako,
Yedo, and other places, are generally built more like fortifications
or places of great strength. In similar style are raised the houses,
palaces or forts of the Daimios in their respective provinces. It
cannot, therefore, be from any fear of earthquakes that this style of
a plain wood-and-paper house is adopted, but it is probably founded on
the same principle as that on which the imperial pedigree is drawn up;
viz., with the view of giving to it the appearance of a temple, and
surrounding the Emperor with the circumstances and attributes of a god.

This palace in Miako appears to be the only one now used by the
Emperor. He is supposed to move from it temporarily only upon rare
occasions. When he is obliged to change his residence, as when the
palace is burned down, he occupies apartments in some one of the many
temples in the neighborhood. Any display of splendor in building is
reserved for the Shiogoon, who has several palaces of great size
and strength, as at Miako, Osaka, Fusimi, Yedo, Kofoo, Soonpoo, all
of which are laid out on the plan of forts and built with a view to
defense from military attacks.

[Illustration: JAPAN AND HER ISLANDS]

It has been stated, and often repeated, that the Emperor of Japan
sits on a throne all day without moving his hands, or even his eyes;
that he is treated as a god, and that his subjects believe that the
empire totters if he is unsteady. These are the exaggerations of the
lower classes. There is no doubt that he is treated with the greatest
reverence and respect--that he is, as it were, an ideal abstraction, a
thing apart, necessary to the empire--that he is the Lord’s anointed,
and not to be touched, and that no subject, however great he may be,
or however firmly he may have grasped the power of the empire in the
convulsions of a revolutionary period, may contemplate placing himself
upon that seat; and we shall find that two of the greatest men who
rose to the highest power did not dare to take such a step, though
one, and perhaps both, proposed it to himself, and broached the idea
to his followers. Though Nobunanga set up a representation of
himself to be worshiped, he did not set aside the Emperor; and though
Taikosama proposed to depose the Emperor, his followers would not
allow it, or at least dissuaded him from making the attempt. Still
the Emperor is not altogether looked upon as the spiritual being
he is generally represented in modern books. Indeed, in the first
periods of the history of the country the head of the empire was the
commander, the leader of the army. Zinmu led his army to victory; and
long after him the Empress Jinku Kogoo led her army into Corea. Her
son Osin, better known by his posthumous title of Hatchimang, was at
the head of his army. But where there is no enemy to fight the post
of commander-in-chief soon falls into abeyance. Japan has long been
in this position--of having no enemy to watch or to attack. Such a
position entails, almost of necessity, the creation of a duality or
double power. The weak condition to which the imperial court descended,
after it had been denuded of its power, and after the command of its
armies had fallen from the hands of scions of the blood-royal into
those of other families, was followed by convulsions, civil wars, and
bloodshed, till the people returned to a state of ignorance, and the
fields to barrenness; but this seems only a consequence of having no
enemy, no near neighbor with whom, by a process of constant watching
and battling, as in Europe, the sinews of a nation are strengthened,
and national feeling is concentrated into a unity.

The annals of the emperors show that, for long after the time of Zinmu,
his successors took an active part in the politics, the wars, and the
intrigues of the state. It is not a matter of wonder that the hands
which held the scepter should have become feeble during the fierce
civil wars which raged in the sixteenth century. The country would seem
to have been driven by necessity to have two emperors--or at least,
two opposing interests; and when the hereditary commander-in-chief
had in turn become a nonentity, one adventurer after another started
up--first, Nobunanga; secondly, Taikosama; thirdly, Iyeyas, all able
men. The first battled with the Buddhist priesthood, the second turned
his arms against Corea, the third, the ablest of all, devised that
dual system of seemingly divided empire, by which the power of the
executive remained in the hands of the Shiogoon at Yedo, while the
source or fountain of honors remained with the Emperor in Miako. The
configuration of the islands prevents their being cut into two empires;
it remained for Iyeyas to devise a dual system by which peace has been
preserved in a remarkable way for two hundred and fifty years.

As to the titles by which the Emperor is known, these are drawn in
most part from the Chinese, and denote, in language suited to Oriental
ideas, the illustrious position which he holds. The names express
the idea that he reigns by divine right. The oldest of these titles
seems to be Mikoto. This is a Japanese word meaning “venerable,” and
translated into Chinese, “tsun.” The word Mikado is more commonly
used now, and is translated by the Chinese “Ti,” or emperor. The
word “O” or “Wo” is the Chinese “Wang,” emperor; and the word “ten,”
or heaven, is commonly added--“Ten wo,” the heavenly ruler; or the
combination “Owo,” or “Oho-wo,” meaning the great ruler, in which
sense “Dai-wo” is also used. “Tenshi” is the “tien-tsi” of China, the
son of heaven. “O-ooji,” the great family, is sometimes applied to
the Emperor. The common people talk of the Emperor as “Miyako sama,”
in contradistinction to “Yedo sama,” the Shiogoon, the Lord of Yedo.
“Ooyaysama,” or the superior lord, is also used. “Dairi,” made up of
two Chinese words signifying the inner court or “the interior,” is
equivalent to the words “the court” in English, and seems to include
the residences of the royal families and higher nobility. It is,
however, sometimes applied to the Emperor himself, and sometimes to the
palace as a building. The first word, “dai” is written both “great,”
_ta_, and “inner,” _nai_. The latter seems the more common. “Gosho” is
a word sometimes applied to the palace, at others to the Emperor and
the government. The word “in,” or “een,” is a Buddhist word, added to
the posthumous name of some of the deceased emperors instead of “Ten
wo.” In addition to these, other names are used, as “Kwo tei,” or ruler
of the people, “Chokku,” etc.

From the earliest period in the history of Japan, mention is made of
three things which necessarily appertain to the person who sits upon
the throne. They seem to be looked on as symbols of the imperial power,
as palladia of the empire. In one of the treatises upon the Emperor’s
court it is said of these mysterious emblems: “In that early time the
heaven-illuminating god arrived at Kashiwabarra, then the capital, and
placed an eight-cubit mirror and a grass-shaving sword in the palace,
on the throne of the Emperor, and these received such homage as was
rendered in the early times. The efficacy of the god was very great,
so that the Emperor, dwelling with this god (these divine symbols),
was, as it were, equal to a god. Within the palace these things were
laid up, that the divine power might remain wherever these things were.
At that time (two high officers) regulated the sacrificial rites and
ceremonies until the tenth emperor, who, fearing the sacredness of the
divine presence, took these two efficacious symbols, the sword and the
mirror, and put them away in another place, which was the origin of the
idea of the Emperor sitting like a god in the place of a god.”

In this quotation only two things are mentioned--the sword and the
mirror. A third is spoken of sometimes as a ball of crystal, at others
as a seal, “sinji.” Klaproth calls it a ball of greenstone with two
small round holes. The three things go by the name of “Sanjioo no
jinji.” During the long and bloody wars between the emperors of the
north and south, in the sixteenth century, the former, who resided
in Miako, and finally established himself on the throne, was not
considered incontestably emperor until he obtained possession of these
three sacred symbols. Though the emperor of the south was hard pressed,
and almost a refugee in the mountains, he kept possession of them, and
finally concluded a truce, delivering them up to his opponent, emperor
_de facto_. On one occasion the three precious jewels were stolen, and
after being kept several months were recovered or sent back. On several
occasions they have narrowly escaped destruction by fire, and in the
year 1040 A.D. the mirror was broken by the heat; but the pieces were
recognized and placed together. Within the last few years (in 1851)
they were again nearly exposed to a similar chance of destruction, but
were saved by Hoongay Hashimoto, who brought them out at the risk of
his life.

In Japan it is usual to perform a ceremony at the time when the boy
assumes the _toga virilis_ and becomes a man. The age at which this
takes place is not settled, and seems to vary from the tenth to the
fifteenth year. The eldest son of the Emperor undergoes this operation
(known as “Gembuko”; Ch., “yuen fuh”) about the age of ten or eleven,
when he, according to the custom, receives a new name. His hair is
shaved off in the manner usual with men, and he assumes a dress. In
all families the occasion is an important one, and in the case of the
son of the Emperor, the heir-apparent, it becomes national. At the
inauguration of the Emperor (according to Klaproth) his height is
measured with a bamboo, which is deposited in one of the great temples
in the province of Isse until his death, when it is removed to another,
and revered as a spirit. With the bamboo of the reigning Emperor are
deposited a straw-hat, a grass rain-mantle, and a spade, emblems of
agriculture, held in Japan as an occupation second only to that of the
soldier.

The Emperor is said to have his eyebrows shaved, and to blacken his
teeth every morning, which operation is effected by a mixture of
sulphate of iron and some astringent bark. The state dresses of the
Emperor are generally of very rich strong silk of a bright green
color. The shape, the color, the pattern are all fixed, and not left
to choice. His under garments are of white silk, and called “mookoo”;
and this is the part of his dress which he never wears twice. Besides
being changed every morning, there are other occasions during the day
in which necessity demands a change. These white silk dresses are the
perquisites of one of the servants, and are sold by him in Miako. The
Emperor always uses cold water for bathing. The cups which he uses for
his meals are also broken; but when it is remembered that the Chinese
and Japanese style of eating requires only one cup, and this perhaps
not a very expensive one, the total does not amount to a large sum in
the annual budget. He is said to devote his time to business matters,
with discussions upon history, laws, and religion. In times past he has
taken but little part in the business of the country; but his share
in this is every year upon the increase, and he is courted by those
who see in what direction political power is tending. The power of
conferring titles and rank may have given him an amount of occupation
and an acquaintance with mankind which would hardly leave him the
nonentity he has generally been described. Twelve days of the month are
set apart for conversations and discussions upon the history, laws,
and religion of Japan. Such spare time as he has is devoted to the
composition of poetry, with music and chess. The Emperor is supposed
to move out of his palace and the grounds and gardens adjoining only
twice a year--once during spring, and once in autumn--when he goes in
a covered car, inclosed by semi-transparent screens of bamboo, drawn
by large bullocks, to visit the environs of Miako. This procession is
known as “Miyuki” or “Gokowo.”

On this state procession the Emperor is accompanied by all the high
officers in Miako. He does not always strictly adhere to this rule of
seclusion, however. Twenty-five years ago Kokaku was in the practice of
walking about the town with his son, afterward Jin-ko, dressed like a
common man. The excuse for this was that his palace was being rebuilt,
after having been burned down. After the Emperor has abdicated no
restrictions are placed upon him.

The Emperor, like the majority of his countrymen, is a vegetarian in
his diet, and, in addition, eats only fish. At one time such animal
food as venison was considered fit for royalty; but the story goes
that the Emperor Ssu-jio heard one evening a doe crying plaintively
for her mate. On the succeeding morning he came to the conclusion
that some venison for his breakfast was the missing lover; and, ever
since, venison has not been included among the dainties of the royal
kitchen. In his time the Emperor and all his court began to wear the
stiff-starched ample robes still used, and the long “kio” or train,
which was introduced to prevent the feet of retreating courtiers being
seen. On leaving the presence of the Emperor, officers walk backward on
their knees.

Some writers have alleged that the Emperor is looked upon as a god,
and that the people think that he goes in the eleventh month to the
meeting of the spirits, the “kami.” This meeting is believed by the
lower classes in Japan to take place during the eleventh month in the
province of Idzumo, at the temple of Oyashiro, which temple is thus
honored because the first spirit dwelt there. At this meeting the
spirits arrange the sublunary and mundane business of Japan for the
subsequent eleven months. The inhabitants of Idzumo call this month
“Kami ari tski,” or the spirit month. All the other provinces call it
“Kami nashi tski,” the month without spirits. The Emperor is supposed
to be above all the kami or spirits, inasmuch as he can confer honors
upon the dead; but he is not looked upon as above the “Tento sama,” or
Lord of heaven, showing that a lower position is assigned to the kami
(or “Shin” of the Chinese) than to the highest deity. But no one of
any ordinary education in Japan believes that the Emperor goes to this
meeting of spirits; these ideas, like many others similar in China,
are only current among the least educated of the people. During this
month, when the spirits are so occupied, none of those ceremonies in
which their assistance must be invoked, such as marriages, adoptions,
etc., takes place; no prayers are offered, as the spirits are supposed
to be engaged. At this meeting they arrange all the marriages which are
to take place during the ensuing year. Each individual in this world,
male and female, is supposed to have a thread of existence, “yeng.”
The spirits take the pairs of threads of those who are to be joined in
matrimony and knot them together. So we speak of marriages being made
in heaven while the hymeneal knot is tied on earth. From this the month
is called “Yeng moosoobi tski”--_i.e._, Tie-the-knot month.

Abdication from positions of active life is very common among all ranks
in Japan. No position seems to be more easily renounced than that of
the occupation of the throne. In a country where the heir may have the
misfortune to be brought up in the lap of luxury, and amid sensual
excitements and indulgences of every kind, it is not surprising that
the irksomeness of his position should make the holder sigh to be
relieved from it, or that vigor of mind or body is only to be found in
those cases where, the heir-apparent having been cut off, the successor
has been adopted at a late period of his life, having been reared
without the expectation of subsequent elevation. After the Emperor has
abdicated he is named “Tai sho ten wo”--equivalent to “His most exalted
and sacred Majesty.” At the present day, upon his taking this step,
should he devote himself to religion and become “Fo wo,” his head is
shaved, and he retires to a monastic life, and generally occupies the
temple Ninaji or Omuro in the neighborhood of Miako.

The Japanese are unostentatious in their customs, and in the treatment
of their great ones after death are singularly undemonstrative.
Considering that all the rites connected with the dead are after
the Buddhist ritual, and that the Chinese devote so much money and
soil to the tombs and monuments of their ministers and great men and
women, something of the same veneration might be expected in Japan.
But, on the contrary, the tombs are generally very small unpretending
structures, consisting of a basement, upon which a single stone is
erected of no great size. Such is the tomb of Yoritomo, the great hero,
in the neighborhood of Kamakura; and such, we are told, are the tombs
of the emperors. They are covered over with a roofing of straw, to keep
before their countrymen and subjects the remembrance of their primeval
simplicity.

As to the succession to the throne, the laws or regulations in Japan
do not seem to be very decided. The frequent abdication of the ruler
gives the opportunity for securing that his successor shall have all
the weight and assistance that the predecessor can give to overcome
the pretensions of rival claimants. When the death of the Emperor has
suddenly left the throne vacant, the eldest son is supposed to be the
rightful heir. But when, as frequently has happened, his mind and
body have been enfeebled by dissipation, and he has neither wit nor
vigor to seize the reins of power, he has too often been supplanted by
the ambition of a brother, or a wife of his father. When the Emperor
leaves only a daughter, she is married to a member of the four imperial
families, and her husband in that case becomes Emperor. In reality, the
most powerful party about the court, when any difficulty occurs, puts
in and supports the member of the imperial family most favorable to
their continuing in power.

The genealogy of the Emperors is considered true and authentic as
published in the Red Book of the empire; the pedigree of the Shiogoon
is looked upon as made up. The former is to be found fully detailed
from native sources in the works of Klaproth and Kæmpfer. The “Oon jo
may rang” is the title of a small book giving the pedigrees and crests
of the Emperor’s family, and of the koongays or nobility. Two crests
or coats-of-arms are used by the Emperor--the one, “kiku,” for outside
imperial government business, like the flower of a chrysanthemum, with
sixteen petals; the other, the “kiri,” is used for the palace matters
personal to the Emperor and his family. No notice seems to be taken of
the common assumption of the imperial crest, but no one dares to use
the crest of the Shiogoon except by permission.

The following sayings give some idea of the reverence with which the
Emperor is spoken of: “Mikado ni ooji nashi,” is a saying to express
that the Emperor is of no family. “Tenshi foo bo nashi”--“The Emperor
has neither father nor mother.” “In heaven there is one sun, on earth
there is one Emperor,” is a Confucian saying in accordance with the
ideas of the country. “O wo wa jiu zenn, kami wa ku zenn”--“The power
of the Emperor is as ten, that of the gods as nine”; implying that more
reverence is due to the Emperor than to the lesser spirits, and that
he has more power. “The Emperor all men respect, the Shiogoon all men
fear.” “Heaven is his father, earth is his mother, his friends are the
sun and moon.” Such ideas are taken from the Chinese classics.

The Emperor marries one wife, who is the Empress. He is allowed by the
laws of the country to take twelve concubines, who are generally the
daughters of the poorer nobility. The throne can be, and has frequently
been, occupied by a female. The Emperor is supposed to receive, as an
allowance from the Shiogoon, 100,000 kobangs, equal to $350,000 per
annum. This he receives from the Yedo government, but he probably has
a large revenue from land in the “Go ki nai” or “Go ka koku,” or five
provinces. He is said to complain of the duties from foreign trade not
being paid into his treasury, inasmuch as when the trade was conducted
formerly by the Portuguese at Sakkye, the Emperor received the duties;
but as Yokohama is out of the Gokinai, the Shiogoon prefers that the
duties should flow to Yedo. These five provinces are frequently spoken
of by the writers of the sixteenth century as the Tensee--heavenly
or sacred soil. They are Yamashiro, Yamato, Setsu, Kaawdsio, and
Idzumi. The whole empire is spoken of, as in China, as all under
heaven--“Tenka.”

Two officers in the Emperor’s palace are appointed from Yedo--two
Hattamoto, or inferior barons--to superintend the disbursement of
money, and to keep accounts of the money paid by the Shiogoon’s
government. These men have fifty soldiers under them. Under them are
nine “Toritsungi,” generally men of some rank and position.

The Emperor’s own private establishment consists of the following
officers:

1. Makanye Kashira, generally a Hattamoto, who keeps the accounts of
the imperial table and pays the money.

2. Kye mon tskye, called “Kimsakye,” two Hattamoto, who go to buy the
provisions for the palace.

3. Go zembang, six men, whose business is to examine the Emperor’s food.

4. Shuri siki, five men, to look after the buildings; generally Miako
men of old families.

5. Makanye kata, six men, whose duty is to say what, and how much, is
to be purchased for the palace.

6. Gim miakoo and Itamoto--of the former three, of the latter
seventeen--head cooks and ordinary cooks.

7. Kangay bang, keepers of the keys, seven men.

8. Sosha bang, messengers.

9. Tskye bang or Kashira, three men, lower messengers.

These are all given in the official list as the ordinary household in
daily attendance on the emperor.

After his death an honorific title is given to the deceased Emperor, by
which he is subsequently known in history.


THE SHI SINWO, OR FOUR IMPERIAL FAMILIES

The “Shi sinwo” (“sz tsan wang”) are “four imperial relatives,” or
royal families of Japan. This name denotes four families of imperial
descent set apart, with allotted residences and revenues, as supporters
to the imperial family. The families are cadets of the royal line
descended from junior branches. From among the members of these four
families, in case of failure of male heirs of the body, an heir to the
throne, or a husband to the Princess Imperial, is to be sought.

In Japan all ranks are under laws more or less strict, and from such
the imperial family does not escape. The succession to the throne,
at all times an object in Eastern countries for daring ambition to
aim at, and a fruitful source of revolution and misery to the people,
is regulated and guarded in Japan on a basis wide enough to secure a
succession, and preserved by such safeguards as to put it out of the
power of collaterals to hope for success from intriguing ambition. One
of these safeguards is supposed to be in the Emperor’s being allowed
to take twelve concubines over and above his lawful wife, the Empress.
These are generally daughters of men of high rank about the court,
and the son of any one of them, if there is no son by the Empress,
may succeed. If there be a daughter, she marries one of the members
of these four families, and he becomes Emperor. Jinko, the father of
the late Emperor, succeeded in this way. His father, Kokaku, was a
member of the royal Kunnin family, and married the only daughter of
the Emperor, and so became Emperor. He had a concubine, the daughter
of Koongay Kwadjooji. The wife and the concubine had each one son.
Satchay no mia was the son of the wife, and heir-apparent to the
throne. But the concubine was a fierce, jealous woman, and determined
that her son should succeed, and she poisoned Satchay. It was the duty
of the Shiogoon’s envoy, Sakkye, to inquire into the reports that
were circulating; and having done so, he discovered the truth, and
put the concubine into confinement. But, though the Emperor was much
distressed, he loved her too well and insisted on her being released.
The government at Yedo heard of what had happened, and required the
envoy to give his reasons for releasing her, when she had committed
so heinous a crime. He committed suicide. Her son, Jinko, it is said,
always paid the Empress the greatest respect, and would never see his
own mother afterward.

But even with this wide matrimonial basis allowed to the Emperor, there
may be a failure of heirs direct. These four families are therefore
established as a further safeguard to the succession.

They take their names from collateral branches of the imperial house,
being originally the families of younger sons of previous Emperors. At
present there are only two families of Sinwo, two having become extinct
by failure of heirs. They are, however, only dormant, as it is a part
of the policy of the state that these families should be in existence,
and it is in the power of the Emperor to put one of his sons into,
as it were, the extinct family--that is, to call him by the name and
give him the revenues belonging to the house, which revenues have been
accruing until the family is re-established.

The four families are called collectively Shi (four) sin (relations) wo
(imperial). The sons of these families are called Sinwo O’nkatta, or
O’nkatta sama [O’nkatta is used as an address of respect to ladies, and
also to Sinwo and high officers in personal attendance on the Emperor],
and from these sons a successor to the Emperor may be taken.

The names of the four “families” are--1, Fusimi; 2, Arisungawa; 3,
Katsura; 4, Kunnin. Of these the last two are the dormant houses. The
revenues of these two houses are managed by factors or agents, and the
fourth is said to be very wealthy.

The heads of the two existing families are:

1. Fusimi no mia, who has a nominal revenue of 1,016 koku[1] of rice;
but he has probably twenty or thirty thousand koku. The present man is
a Koboong of Jinko, the late Emperor.

This “boong” is a voluntary union between two persons, and is quite
different from adoption. It is more of the character of a Masonic
connection. In the relation of a child he is called Koboong; of a
father, Oyaboong; of brothers or sisters, Kiodaiboong: and this
connection is a very common tie between two individuals in Japan, as
well as in China, to help and assist each other. It runs through all
ranks and both sexes. It is a connection which may be as easily severed
as it is made, but it is often strictly adhered to. It is generally
made by drinking formally out of the same cup, each taking half of
the liquor. It may be severed by cutting off the queue, or simply by
formally intimating that it is at an end.

2. Arisungawa Nakatskasa no kio, or head of the Central Board. His
nominal income is 1,000 koku, but his real revenue is much larger.

3. Katsura; the revenue is 3,006 koku.

4. Kunnin; the revenue is nominally 1,006 koku.

In these families there is generally a sufficient number from among
whom to select a successor in case of the death, or what seems more
common in Japan, the abdication and retirement, of the Emperor. But,
at the same time, the arrangement has its disadvantages. It places
a number of men and women of all ages in a very high position, with
apparently no occupation for their leisure time. These men might
become troublesome in the state by carrying on intrigues for their own
advancement and for the gratification of their ambition. Within the
last few years much disquietude has been caused by one of the Sinwo
engaging in intrigues to upset the reigning Emperor. A means has been
arrived at for at once giving these persons income, business, position,
and at the same time getting them out of the way.

The Buddhist priesthood was at one time a very powerful element in the
country. The number of priests was very great, and the revenues of
the monasteries were enormous. By their wealth, and from among their
vassals, they were able to keep up a respectable army; and not by their
vassals alone--the priests themselves filled the ranks. The different
sects built magnificent temples, and these were endowed with ample
lands. Immediately before the period of the advent of the Christians
in the sixteenth century, the power of the priesthood seems to have
reached its highest point. Nobunanga, who at one time was inclined to
favor the foreign priests, had always a great jealousy of, and bore a
great ill-will to, the Buddhist priesthood. He destroyed their temples,
killed their priests, and confiscated their revenues, and thus gave
a blow to their power from which they have never recovered, and under
which they are withering more and more every day.

In Japan, a man while a priest, after having shaved his head and taken
the vows, is supposed to be out of the world, and it is then much
easier to keep a certain amount of surveillance over him, and to see
that he is attending to his duties, and is not engaged in political
intrigues.

Of the larger Buddhist temples of different sects, fourteen are
retained as having the largest revenues; and whenever a male member of
the royal family is unprovided for he is put in as head abbot or bishop
of one of these temples. They are generally appointed while children,
and brought up to the position; and as the revenues of the office have
thus time to accumulate, the reverend holder has sufficient for his
wants and those of a respectable retinue. They are then called Sinwo
Monzekke (Muntsih).

1. The first is Rinoji Monzekke, or abbot of Rinoji temple. The temple
over which he is abbot is To yay zan, in Yedo. The first high-priest
put into this was Koboong of Iyeyas, then Shiogoon. The revenue amounts
to 13,000 koku of rice. The holder is of the Arisungawa family, and is
of the first rank and second degree. He is known as “Kwan rayee no mia”
(from the nengo, or date, of his appointment), and Yedo no mia or Ooyay
no mia. In 1860 the incumbent was very old, and a boy, Gofutay, of the
Fusimi family, was appointed assistant and successor.

2. The second is Ninaji no mia, otherwise called Omuro. The income is
1,502 koku. The incumbent is of the Fusimi family. He is head of the
Singong sect, and was appointed to the office in 1843, when four years
of age. To this temple the Emperor generally retires should he become a
priest after abdication.

3. Dai Kakuji, otherwise called Sanga, is vacant.

4. Mio ho in, at Hiyayzan, a large temple near Miako. The Monzekke is
of the Kunnin family. He is head of the Tendai sect of Buddhists, and
is known as Tendai zass.

5. Sho ngo in no Monzekke is head of the Yamabooshi religion. He is of
the Fusimi family, with an income of 1,430 koku. His temple is at Omine
Honzan.

6. Sho ko in; vacant, but the revenues are held by No. 5.

7. Say ray in Monzekke: is known as Awata Mia. He is of the Fusimi
family. The income is 1,330 koku.

8. Chi wong in Monzekke, of the Arisungawa family. The temple is in
Miako, and he is the head of the Jodoshiu sect of Buddhists.

9. Kwajooji is vacant.

10. Itchi jo in Monzekke. The temple is in Narra, and is very old. Held
by one of the house of Fusimi.

11. Kaji ee Monzekke, of the Tendai sect. Of the family of Fusimi, with
an income of 1,600 koku.

12. Manjo in Monzekke is vacant.

13. Bissa mondo Monzekke is also vacant.

14. Emmang in Monzekke, commonly called Medora, in the province of
Owomi, is also vacant.

All these bishoprics, as they may be called, are held, or may be held,
by Sinwo or sons of Sinwo.

But as it is in many countries, both European and Eastern, as necessary
and as difficult to dispose of the females of high families as the
males, they also are in many cases provided for.

There are twenty-four temples or nunneries which are, or may be,
under the superintendence of daughters or relatives of the four royal
families.

1. Daijoji, in Miako; of this temple a daughter of the Emperor was
formerly abbess.

2. Hokio ji.

3. Dan kay in.

4. Ko shio in.

5. Ray gan ji, held by one of the Fusimi family, who has the title of
Nio-wo, or Queen of Nuns.

6. Yenshoji, in Narra, the ecclesiastical metropolis of Japan.

7. Rin kinji.

8. Chiu goji and sixteen others of lower class. Many of them are,
however, unoccupied; partly, perhaps, from want of ladies of the royal
family to fill them, and partly from failure of zeal for the Buddhist
religion all over the country.

The laws with reference to the perpetuity of the vows of these priests
and priestesses do not seem to be very strict, as we find that, when
opportunity offers, the garb is thrown off, the hair is allowed to
grow, and he or she mixes again in the world in whatever capacity their
worldliness, their ambition, or their sense, has prompted them to
desire.

It has been stated that the Emperor, as the fountain of honor,
reserves to himself the sole right of conferring titles and rank.
This reservation throws great political power into his hands, the
acquisition of title and rank being, with rare exceptions, an object of
the highest ambition to a Japanese. The amount of business connected
with this power is great, and may be said to have been for many
years the sole occupation for the Miako court. A special office and
officers are set apart within the palace inclosure for carrying on the
correspondence and settling disputes connected with the department.


RANKS OF MEN IN JAPAN

Every individual in Japan, whether noble, priest or peasant, is
supposed to know the rank in which he stands relatively to those
about him. The marks of respect to superiors--which in degree
appear excessive to Western nations--are graduated from a trifling
acknowledgment to the most absolute prostration. When two men or women
meet, the first point to be ascertained seems to be, which of the two
is to make the acknowledgment of the social position of the other.
This state of things is supported by law as well as custom, and more
particularly by the permission given to a two-sworded man, in case of
his feeling himself insulted, to take the law into his own hands. What
would be irksome to us seems to become easy and a matter of course in
Japan; and though, no doubt, the assumption of position is often the
source of brawls and fights, the system works more smoothly than might
have been expected.

The custom of wearing two swords was introduced in the sixteenth
century. The old Miako nobility do not adopt the custom--civilian
Koongays wearing no sword, and military only one as of old. All Japan
is divided into two classes: those who have a right to wear two swords,
the “Nihon sashi shto” or “two-sworded man,” called also “Yashiki
shto” or castle retainers; and those who have no such right, the
“Matchi shto” or street man (otherwise called Chonin). The latter class
comprises merchants, artisans, workmen, etc., who work at some trade,
but possess no ground; and also Hiaksho, farmers who do not trade, but
farm or rent ground. In some cases individuals of these classes can
wear two swords. The “swordless man” in Yedo pays rent for his ground,
house and shop. The “two-sworded man” pays no rent and no taxes,
because he is not allowed to trade. In Yedo, parts of the town are
known as “Matchi tsuchee,” street ground, and other parts as “Yashiki
tsuchee,” castle ground. Persons living on the former can open shops
and trade; in the latter this is not allowed. This last two-sworded
class is known as “Samurai” (Ch. Sz), which may be translated “an
officer and a gentleman,” and is an important distinction conferring
valuable rights and privileges at the expense of the rest of the
community.

This division of the people into two classes is a measure issuing from
the executive at Yedo, the Shiogoon’s government, rather than from
Miako. The Samurai class may be said to include the Koongays, the
Daimios, the “Jiki sang,” who are the officers and sub-officers in the
service of the Shiogoon; the Byshing--_i.e._, officers in the service
of Daimios; and such Chonin as are doing duty as officers in some large
town, such as Osaka or Miako, and are always spoken of in connection
with the city--as Osaka chonin, for instance. The term “Samurai” is
applied more particularly to all below the fifth rank, military or
civilians who are not merchants or artisans. There are others who
have the right to wear two swords, such as Goshi, large farmers or
landed proprietors whose ancestors were Daimios. These are strongest
in the provinces of Kahi, Etsjiu and Dewa, some being very wealthy--as
Homma in Dewa, and Hanagura in Etsjiu. The Samurai who have the right
to wear two swords assume the right of giving two swords to their
attendants; and this right, once assumed, is not readily relinquished,
seeing that a two-sworded man has the privilege of traveling at a much
cheaper rate than other members of society, pays no tolls or taxes,
and not infrequently pays nothing for food and lodging, their power
being so great that they are feared, if not in actual attendance upon
some superior. These men are frequently dismissed by, or voluntarily
leave the service of, their Daimio or master; but as those who are so
dismissed are often brawlers, they retain their swords, and gain a
living by their becoming a terror to quiet people. They are said to be
“floating,” without any attachment, like straws on a stream, and are
thence called “Ronin” or “floating-man.” These men are most imperious
and domineering toward others not having the same privileges as
themselves, and this power compels wealthy traders and others to enroll
themselves in the retinue of some Daimio, or take some other roundabout
mode to prevent themselves being insulted. This is not the character of
every Ronin, many of whom are respectable members of society, holding
their privileges in abeyance until called upon to give feudal service
by some superior.

The people of Japan are divided generally into the following classes:

1. Koongays, or Miako nobility.

2. Daimios, or Yedo nobility.

3. Hattamoto--Lower Daimio class.

4. Hiaksho--Farmers and landed proprietors without rank or title.

5. Shokonin--Artisans, carpenters, etc.

6. Akindo--Merchants.

7. Kweiamono--Actors, beggars, etc.

8. Yayta--Tanners, shoemakers, leather workers, skinners.

Beneath these are prostitutes, and all connected with them, who are
considered beasts, or on a level with them.

In opposition to the name of “Koongay” (Kung kia), “exalted house,” the
nobility of Miako, the Daimios and officers of the Shiogoon’s court,
are called “Jee ngay” (Ti hia), meaning persons low, on a level with
the ground, the latter not being recognized by the Emperor as feudal
lords further than as servants of his servant, “Tokungawa”--_i.e._ the
Shiogoon.

The Japanese titles and classification of officers have been taken
generally from China. As in China, all the officers honored with titles
by the Emperor, or performing duties about the court, are divided into
classes or ranks. In China the Mandarins are divided into nine classes.
Each of these classes is again subdivided into a first and secondary
division. The same division and subdivision are found in Japan, with
this difference, that there are six classes, each subdivided into four
ranks. The word used for rank is I, otherwise called Kurai. This is the
Chinese word Wai. The six ranks in order are, Itchi-i, Ni-i, Sanm-i,
Shi-i, Go-i and Roko-i. Each of these is divided according to the
Chinese classification into two, the “shio” (or “jio”) and the “jiu,”
corresponding to the “ching” and the “tsung.” These are subdivided
again into two--upper and lower--“jio” and “gay,” the Chinese “shang”
and “hia.” The full description of men of the first and second ranks
would be respectively “Jo itchi-i no jio” and “Jo itchi-i no gay”--the
“no” meaning “of.” The minor divisions “jio” and “gay” are not much
used in the higher ranks until the highest is reached, an honor now
reserved only for the dead. Indeed, all below Shi-i, or the fourth
grade, are commonly known now by a general name, “Sho dai boo” (“Chu
ta fu”). The higher classes wear at court distinguishing dresses and
colors, or devices upon black dresses, and they are entitled in virtue
of their rank to have a spear carried before them when moving about
officially. Officers are presented at court, both at Miako and Yedo,
according to their rank, not according to the importance of their
office. Few of the Daimios are higher than the first subdivision of the
fourth rank. The Shiogoon himself is elevated from one rank to another
by the favor of the Emperor, at times not rising higher than the first
subdivision of the second class. To attain such rank at the imperial
court is the great object of ambition in Japan, and next in importance
is the acquisition of a title conferred by the Emperor. But as some
titles, though not recognized at court, are used by the Daimios as
holding territory under the Shiogoon, there is a distinction observed
between the two. The holders of titles conferred by the Emperor are
known as “Kio kwang” (King kwan) or imperial officers, while the
Daimios are known from their territorial appellations as “Kooni kami”
(Kwoh shau), or keepers of the provinces. An imperial title in the
address is always placed before the territorial title.


THE KOONGAY

After the Emperor and royal families, the first in rank in the state
are the Koongays. Until further light be thrown upon Japanese history,
the remote origin of this class will be somewhat obscure, some tracing
their pedigree back upward of 1,500 years. Many of the Koongays are
descendants of younger sons and cadets of the imperial family branching
off at former periods, while the surnames of some of the other families
are as old as historic records. In all probability their forefathers
came over to Japan at the time of its invasion and conquest by Zinmu,
and being the assistants, brothers in arms, and mainstays of his
throne and power, the soil about the center of the empire was divided
among them, and they thenceforward became the nobility of the court
of the Emperor. So long as the empire was under one emperor who ruled
vigorously, this aristocracy seems to have existed in the central
provinces as feudal lords, much in the same way as the Daimios of
the present day. But when the vigor of rule relaxed, and power fell
into the hands of a commander-in-chief, or mayor of the palace, with
uncertainty in the rulers, there followed division in the aristocracy.
Previous to the beginning of the fifteenth century, the western part
of the empire was all that was known to any who could throw light
upon its position by writing. The large tract of country to the north
and northeast of Yedo, called the obscure or unpenetrated way, was
comparatively unknown and uninhabited, and was divided into four or
five large territories, under princes who seldom heard of, and more
rarely visited, the court at Miako. The dissensions and struggles for
power between the two powerful families of Heji and Genji gave rise to
a nearly continual state of civil war for upward of 200 years. During
the Onin war families were destroyed, territories were lost, might was
everywhere right, and though several of the oldest and noblest families
among the Koongays retained their honors and titles and places about
the court, they lost their property, and many have ever since remained
at the lowest ebb of poverty.

Those few noble families which had previously to this period of civil
war divided among themselves the places and titles of the court,
were denuded of their splendor; but their representatives continued
to struggle on with poverty, proud in the possession of an ancient
lineage, and of their names being enrolled as nobles in the Great Book
of the empire. These are the Koongays of the present day. They are
not all in this state of poverty, many of them being well off, and
some very wealthy; but others are very poor, and eke out the scanty
subsistence given them by the Emperor by painting, basket-making,
and other manual employments, affording, in their persons, their
poverty, and their pretensions, ample scope for the pen of the native
caricaturist. The names, history, and pedigree of the Koongays are
enrolled in the Great Book of the empire, the equivalent to the
Heralds’ Office or Patent Office of England. A book, the “Koongay
no Kayzu,” or Pedigree of the Koongays, is printed in Japan, giving
all these particulars, and is generally by the natives considered
authentic. The names of Daimios (as such) are not so enrolled; they
have no patents of nobility from the Emperor, and the “Hang campu,”
giving the pedigree and history of the families of Daimios, is regarded
as anything but authentic, and is looked upon as in many cases made up
by individuals to conceal the origin of the family.

The Koongay class includes all the illustrious families of Japan. In
common estimation the Daimios are far below this class; and even the
Shiogoon, though he is feared as the head of the executive, is looked
upon as comparatively a parvenu.

The class is divided into two, an older or higher, the “Koongio,” and
a lower, or more recently created, “Ten jio bito” (Tien shang jin).
“Koongio” (Kung hiang) is a name which includes all the officers of
the first, second and third ranks. All of the fourth rank and below
are called “So shing,” in which are included “Ten jio bito,” “Sho
diabu,” and “Samurai.” The appellation “Mayka” (ming kia) seems to
denote that the bearer is a civilian. All the higher offices in the
state are filled by Koongays, but only five families are eligible to
fill the highest. These five families are known as the “Go sek kay”
(Wu ship kia), or “Shippay kay,” or “Sessio no eeyay,” helper of
emperor--lit., to take the handle--“the five assisting families.” They
are: 1, Konoyay; 2, Koojio; 3, Nijio; 4, Itchijio; 5, Takatskasa. If
the highest offices under the Emperor (as those of “Dai jio dai jin,”
“Kwanbakku,” or “Sessio”) be vacant, no one who is not of one of these
five families is eligible to fill such office.

In regard to rank at court, the Koongays generally stand in the lower
class of the first, or in the second or third rank. They are known at
Miako by their dress. For a long time past they have had little power,
and were of little importance; but since the commencement of foreign
relations the political tide has rather flowed toward Miako, and
from Yedo, and they have increased in political power as well as in
wealth, as the Daimios and office-seekers of Yedo endeavor to obtain
the objects of their ambition through the influence of their poorer
brethren in Miako. The poverty of most of the class prevents their
entering upon an enervating life of dissipation, which too often saps
the vigor of the constitution of the Daimios, and they are able to take
a part in the discussion of political subjects. Many of them fill the
more or less nominal offices of government in one of the eight great
boards of the empire; and this amount of occupation, together with
writing imaginative pieces, keeps their minds in a sufficient state of
activity.

In addition to the distinctions of rank in Japan, there is also the
distinction into families or clans, great importance being attached to
a family name. The feuds between rival families have in past times rent
the empire to pieces. The Emperor is said to have no name; but some of
the cadets, offshoots from the imperial line, have founded lines of
their own, taking root and flourishing as distinct families. In this
way have been derived the lines known as the “Say wa Genji,” the “Ooda
Genji,” and the “Murakami Genji.” These are descendants of younger sons
of emperors of these names. But among all the families of Japan, the
first place is held by that of Fusiwara, in length of pedigree, in the
honors held in past ages, and in the present position of the family.
During every period in the annals of the empire, members of this family
have filled the highest offices, civil and military, of the state.
But it has, perhaps, shone more in civil employment than in military.
The “five families” of the Sekkay mentioned above belong to the clan
Fusiwara. Other families have risen at different times to the highest
pinnacle attainable by subjects, but after a time they have gradually
fallen back into comparative obscurity. Ninety-five of the Koongays
call themselves of the clan Fusiwara. In very remote periods the family
of Nakatomi seems to have held the highest rank, absorbing by its
members, at one time, all the offices of religion. Only one Koongay
family, Fusinami, now represents this old clan. In point of antiquity,
if not of luster of name, the Sungawara family, commonly called Kwang
kay, ranks second only to Fusiwara. The members of this family are
rarely found in military employment, generally filling the offices of
teachers or lecturers on history or religion.