The Project Gutenberg eBook of Diverging roads
    
This ebook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this ebook or online
at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States,
you will have to check the laws of the country where you are located
before using this eBook.

Title: Diverging roads

Author: Rose Wilder Lane

Release date: October 20, 2024 [eBook #74612]

Language: English

Original publication: United States: The Century Co

Credits: Mary Glenn Krause, Mary Meehan and the Online Distributed Proofreading Team at https://www.pgdp.net (This file was produced from images generously made available by The Internet Archive/American Libraries.)


*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK DIVERGING ROADS ***





                            DIVERGING ROADS

                          BY ROSE WILDER LANE

                     NEW YORK THE CENTURY CO. 1919

                  Copyright, 1919, by THE CENTURY CO.

                       _Published, March, 1919_




                               PROLOGUE


The tale of California's early days is an epic, an immortal song of
daring, of hope, of the urge of youth to unknown trails, of struggle,
and of heartbreak. Across the great American plains the adventurers
came, scrawling the story of their passing in lines of blood; they came
around the Horn in wind-jammers, beating their way northward in the
strange Pacific; they forced their way into the wilderness, awakening
California's hills from centuries-long sleep, and they pitched their
tents and built their cabins by thousands in Cherokee Valley.

Those were the great days of Cherokee, days of feverish activity,
of hard, fierce living, of marvelous event. The tales came down to
Masonville, where the stage stopped to change horses, and drivers,
express-messengers, and prospectors gathered in Mason's bar. The
Chinese laundryman had found beside his cabin a nugget worth sixteen
hundred dollars; the stage to Honey Creek had been held up just north
of Cherokee Hill; Jim Thane had struck it rich on North Branch.

Mason, prospering, ordered a billiard-table sent up from San
Francisco, built a dance-hall. Richardson came in with his family and
put up a general store. Cherokee was booming; Cherokee miners came down
with their sacks of gold-dust, and Masonville thrived.

But the great days passed. The time came when placer mining no longer
paid in Cherokee, and the camp moved on across the mountains. Cherokee
Valley was left behind, a desolate little hollow among the hills,
denuded of its trees, disfigured here and there by the scars of shallow
tunnels where hope still fought against defeat. A handful of dogged
miners remained, and a few Portuguese families living in little cabins,
harvesting a bare subsistence from the unwilling soil.

A few discouraged men came down to Masonville and took up homestead
claims, clearing the chaparral from their rolling acres, sowing grain
or setting out fruit-trees. They had wives and children; in time they
built a school-house. Later the railroad came through, and there was a
station and a small bank.

But the stirring times of enterprise and daring were gone forever. The
epic had ended in bad verse. Masonville slipped quietly to sleep, like
an old man sitting in the sun with his memories. And youth, taking
up its old immortal song of courage and of hope, went on to farther
unknown trails and different adventure.




                            DIVERGING ROADS




                               CHAPTER I


There is a peculiar quality in the somnolence of an old town in which
little has occurred for many years. It is the unease of relaxation
without repose, the unease of one who lies too late in bed, aware that
he should be getting up. The men who lounge aimlessly about the street
corners cannot be wholly idle. Their hands, at least, must be busy. The
scarred posts and notched edges of the board sidewalks show it; the
paint on the little stations is sanded shoulder-high to prevent their
whittling there. Energy struggles feebly under the weight of the slow,
uneventful days; but its pressure is always there, an urge that becomes
an irritation in young blood.

Helen Davies, pausing in the doorway of Richardson's store on a warm
spring afternoon, said to herself that she would be glad never to see
Masonville again. The familiar sight of its one drowsy street, the
rickety wooden awnings over the sidewalks, the boys pitching horseshoes
in the shade of the blacksmith-shop, was almost insupportable.

She did not want to stand there looking at it. She did not want to
follow the old stale road home to the old farm-house, which had not
changed since she could remember. She felt that she should be doing
something, she did not know what.

A long purple curl of smoke unrolling over the crest of Cherokee Hill
was the plume of Number Five coming in. Two short, quick puffs of white
above the bronze mist of bare apricot orchards mutely announced the
whistle for the grade.

Men sauntered past, going toward the station. The postmaster appeared
in his shirt-sleeves, pushing a wheelbarrow filled with mail sacks down
the middle of the street. The afternoon hack from Cherokee rattled by,
bringing a couple of tired, dust-grimed drummers. And the Masonville
girls, bare-headed, laughing, talking in high, gay voices, came
hurrying from the post-office, from the drug-store, from one of their
Embroidery Club meetings, to see Number Five come in. Helen shifted the
weight of the package on her arm, pulled her sunbonnet farther over her
face, and started home.

Depression and revolt struggled in her mind. She passed the wide,
empty doorway of Harner's livery-stable, the glowing forge of the
blacksmith-shop, without seeing them, absorbed in the turmoil of her
thoughts. But at the corner where the gravel walk began, and the
street frankly became a country road slipping down a little slope
between scattered white cottages, her self-absorption vanished.

A boy was walking slowly down the path. The elaborate unconcern of his
attitude, the stiffness of his self-conscious back, told her that he
had been waiting for her, and a rush of dizzying emotion swept away all
but the immediate moment. The sunshine was warm on her shoulders, the
grass of the lawns was green, every lace-curtained window behind the
rose-bushes seemed to conceal watching eyes, and the sound of her feet
on the gravel was loud in her ears. She overtook him at last, trying
not to walk too fast. They smiled at each other.

"Hello, Paul," she said shyly.

He was a stocky, dark-haired boy, with blue eyes. His father was dead,
killed in a mine over at Cherokee. He had come down to the Masonville
school, and they were in the same class, the class that would graduate
that spring. He was studying hard, trying to get as much education as
possible before he would have to go to work. He lived with his mother
in a little house near the edge of town, on the road to the farm.

"Hello," he replied. He cleared his throat. "I had to go to the
post-office to mail a letter," he said.

"Did you?" she answered. She tried to think of something else to say.
"Will you be glad when school's over?" she asked.

Paul and she stood at the head of the class. He was better in
arithmetic, but she beat him in spelling. For a long time they had
exchanged glances of mutual respect across the school-room. Some one
had told her that Paul said she was all right. He had beat her in
arithmetic that day. "She takes a licking as well as a boy," was what
he had said. But she had gone home and looked in the mirror.

The flutter at her heart had stopped then. No, she was not pretty. Her
features were too large, her forehead too high. She despised the face
that looked back at her. She longed for tiny, pretty features, large
brown eyes, a low forehead with curling hair. The eyes in the mirror
were gray and the hair was straight and brown. Not even a pretty, light
brown. It was almost black. For the first time she had desperately
wanted to be pretty. But now she did not care. He had waited for her,
anyway.

They walked slowly along the country road, under the arch of the trees,
through the branches of which the sun sent long, slanting rays of
light. There was a colored haze over the leafless orchards, and the
hills were freshly green from the rains.

"Well, I've got a job promised as soon as school is over," said Paul.

"What kind of job?" she asked.

"Working at the depot. It pays fifteen a month to start," he replied.
It was as if they were uttering poetry. The words did not matter. What
they said did not matter.

"That's fine," she said. "I wish I had a job."

"Gee, I hate to see a girl go to work," said Paul.

His lips were full and very firm. When he set them tightly, as he did
then, he looked determined. There was something obstinate about the
line of his chin and the slight frown between his heavy black brows.
Her whole nature seemed to melt and flow toward him.

"I don't see why!" she flashed. "A girl like me has to work if she's
going to get anywhere. I bet I could do as well as a boy if I had a
chance."

The words were like a defensive armor between her and her real desire.
She did not want to work. She wanted to be soft and pretty, tempting
and teasing and sweet. She wanted to win the things she desired by
tears and smiles and coaxing. But she did not know how.

Paul looked at her admiringly. He said, "I guess you could, all right.
You're pretty smart for a girl."

She glowed with pleasure.

They had often walked along this road as far as his house, when
accident brought them home from school at the same time. But their talk
had never had this indefinable quality, as vague and beautiful as the
misty color over the orchards.

Sometimes she had stopped at his house for a few minutes. His mother
was a little woman with brisk, bustling manner. She always stood at
the door to see that they wiped their feet before they went in. The
house was very neat. There was an ingrain carpet on the front-room
floor, swept till every thread showed. The center-table had a crocheted
tidy on it and a Bible and a polished sea-shell. This room rose like a
picture in her mind as they neared the gate. She did not want to leave
Paul, but she did not want to go into that room with him now.

"Look here--wait a minute--" he said, stopping in the gateway. "I
wanted to tell you--" He turned red and looked down at one toe, boring
into the soft ground. "About this being valedictorian--"

"Oh!" she said. There had been a fierce rivalry between them for the
honor of being valedictorian at the graduating exercises. There was
nothing to choose between them in scholarship, but Paul had won. She
knew the teachers had decided she did not dress well enough to take
such a prominent part.

"I hope you don't feel bad about it, Helen," he went on awkwardly. "I
told them I'd give it up, because you're a girl, and anyway you ought
to have it, I guess. I don't feel right about taking it, some way."

"That's all right," she answered. "I don't care."

"Well, it's awfully good of you." She could see that he was very much
relieved. She was glad she had lied about it. "Come in and look at
what I've got in the shed," he said, getting away from the subject as
quickly as possible.

She followed him around the house, under the old palm-tree that stood
there. He had cleared out the woodshed and put in a table and a chair.
On the table stood a telegraphic-sounder and key and a round, red, dry
battery.

"I'm going to learn to be an operator," he said. "I've got most of the
alphabet already. Listen." He made the instrument click. "I'm going to
practise receiving, listening to the wires in the depot. Morrison says
I can after I get through work. Telegraph-operators make as much as
seventy dollars a month, and some of them, on the fast wires, make a
hundred. I guess the train-dispatcher makes more than that."

"Oh, Paul, really?" She was all enthusiasm. He let her try the key. "I
could do it. I know I could," she said.

He was encouraging.

"Sure you could." But there was a faint condescension in his tone, and
she felt that he was entering a life into which she could not follow
him.

"That's the trouble with this rotten old world," she said resentfully.
"You can get out and do things like that. A girl hasn't any chance at
all."

"Oh, yes, she has," he answered. "There's lots of girl operators.
There's one down the line. Her father's station agent. And up at Rollo
there's a man and his wife that handle the station between them. He
works nights, and she works daytimes. They live over the depot, and if
anything goes wrong she can call him."

"That must be nice," she said.

"He's pretty lucky, all right," Paul agreed. "It isn't exactly like
having her working, of course--right together like that. I guess maybe
they couldn't--been married, unless she did. He didn't have much, I
guess. He isn't so awful much older than--But anyway, I'd hate to
see--anybody I cared about going to work," he finished desperately.
He opened and shut the telegraph-key, and the metallic clacks of the
sounder were loud in the stillness. Unsaid things hung between them.
Dazzled, tremulous, shaken by the beating of her heart, Helen could not
speak.

The palpitant moment was ended by the sound of his mother's voice.
"Paul! Paul, I want some wood." They laughed shakily.

"I--I guess I better be going," she said. He made no protest. But when
they stood in the woodshed doorway he said all in a rush:

"Look here, if I get a buggy next Sunday, what do you say we go driving
somewhere?"

She carried those words home with her, singing as she went.




                              CHAPTER II


He came early that Sunday afternoon, but she had been ready, waiting,
long before she saw the buggy coming down the road.

She had tried to do her hair in a new way, putting it up in rag curlers
the night before, working with it for hours that morning in the stuffy
attic bedroom before the wavy mirror, combing it, putting it up, taking
it down again, with a nervous fluttering in her wrists. In the end she
gave it up. She rolled the long braid into its usual mass at the nape
of her neck, and pinned on it a black ribbon bow.

She longed for a new white dress to wear that day. Her pink gingham,
whose blue-and-white-plaid pattern had faded to blurred lines of mauve
and pale pink, was hideous to her as she contemplated it stretched in
all its freshly ironed stiffness on the bed. But it was the best she
could do.

While she dressed, the sounds of the warm, lazy, spring morning
floated in to her through the half-open window. The whinnying of the
long-legged colt in the barnyard, the troubled, answering neigh of
his mother from the pasture, the cackling of the hens, blended like
the notes of a pastoral orchestra with the rising and falling whirr of
steel on the grindstone. Under the stunted live-oak in the side-yard
her father was sharpening an ax, while her little sister Mabel turned
the crank and poured water on the whirling stone. The murmur of their
talk came up to her, Mabel's shrill, continuous chatter, her father's
occasional monosyllables. She heard without listening, and the sounds
ran like an undercurrent of contentment in her thoughts.

When she had pinned her collar and put on her straw sailor she stood
for a long time gazing into the eyes that looked back at her from the
mirror, lost in a formless reverie.

"My land!" her mother said when she appeared in the kitchen. "What're
you all dressed up like that for, this time of day?"

"I'm going driving," she answered, constrained. She had dreaded the
moment. Her mother stopped, the oven door half open, a fork poised in
her hand.

"Who with?"

"Paul." She tried to say the name casually, making an effort to meet
her mother's eyes as usual. It was as if they looked at each other
across a wide empty space. Her mother seemed suddenly to see in her a
stranger.

"But--good gracious, Helen! You're only a little girl!" The words
were cut across by Tommy's derisive chant from the table, where he sat
licking a mixing-spoon.

"Helen's got a feller! Helen's got a feller!"

"Shut up!" she cried. "If you don't shut up--!"

But he got away from her and, slamming the screen door, yelled from the
safe distance of the woodpile:

"Helen's mad, and I'm glad, an' I know what will please her--!"

She went into the other room, shutting the door with a shaking hand.
She felt that she hated the whole world. Yes, even Paul. Her mother
called to her that even if she was going out with a beau, that was no
reason she shouldn't eat something. Dinner wouldn't be ready till two
o'clock, but she ought to drink some milk anyway. She answered that she
was not hungry.

Paul would come by one o'clock, she thought. His mother had only a cold
lunch on Sundays, because they went to church. He came ten minutes
late, and she had forgotten everything else in the strain of waiting.

She met him at the gate, and he got out to help her into the
buggy-seat. He was wearing his Sunday clothes, the blue suit, carefully
brushed and pressed, and a stiff white collar. He looked strange and
formal.

"It isn't much of a rig," he said apologetically, clearing his throat.
She recognized the bony sorrel and the rattling buggy, the cheapest in
Harner's livery-stable. But even that, she knew, was an extravagance
for Paul.

"It's hard to get a rig on Sunday," she said, "Everybody takes them all
out in the morning. I think you were awfully lucky to get such a good
one. Isn't it a lovely day?"

"It looks like the rains are about over," he replied in a polite voice.
After the first radiant glance they had not looked at each other. He
chirped to the sorrel, and they drove away together.

Enveloped in the hood of the buggy-top, they saw before them the yellow
road, winding on among the trees, disappearing, appearing again like
a ribbon looped about the curves of the hills. There was gold in the
green of the fields, gold in the poppies beside the road, gold in the
ruddiness of young apricot twigs. The clear air itself was filled with
vibrant, golden sunshine. They drove in a golden haze. What did they
say? It did not matter. They looked at each other.

His arm lay along the back of the buggy-seat. Its being there was
like a secret shared between them, a knowledge held in common, to be
cherished and to be kept unspoken. When the increasing consciousness of
it grew too poignant to be borne any longer in silence they escaped
from it in sudden mutual panic, breathless. They left the buggy, tying
the patient sorrel in the shade beneath a tree, and clambered up the
hillside.

They went, they said, to gather wild flowers. He took her hand to help
her up the trail, and she permitted it, stumbling, when unaided she
could have climbed more easily, glad to feel that he was the leader,
eager that he should think himself the stronger. At the top of the
hill they came to a low-spreading live-oak with a patch of young grass
beneath it, and here, forgetting the ungathered flowers, they sat down.

They sat there a long time, talking very seriously on grave subjects;
life and the meaning of it, the bigness of the universe, and how it
makes a fellow feel funny, somehow, when he looks at the stars at night
and thinks about things. She understood. She felt that way herself
sometimes. It was amazing to learn how many things they had felt in
common. Neither of them had ever expected to find any one else who felt
them, too.

Then there was the question of what to do with your life. It was a
pretty important thing to decide. You didn't want to make mistakes,
like so many men did. You had to start right. That was the point, the
start. When you get to be eighteen or so, almost twenty, you realize
that, and you look back over your life and see how you've wasted a lot
of time already. You realize you better begin to do something.

Now here was the idea of learning telegraphy. That looked pretty good.
If a fellow really went at that and worked hard, there was no telling
what it might lead to. You might get to be a train-dispatcher or even a
railroad superintendent. There were lots of big men who didn't have any
better start than he had. Look at Edison.

She agreed. She was sure there was nothing he could not do. Somehow,
then, they began to talk as if she would be with him. She might be a
telegrapher, too. Wouldn't it be fun if she was, so they could be in
the same town? He'd help her with the train orders, and if he worked
nights she could fix his lunch for him.

They made a sort of play of it, laughing about it. They were only
supposing, of course. They carefully refrained from voicing the thought
that clamored behind everything they said, that set her heart racing
and kept her eyes from meeting his, the thought of that young couple at
Rollo.

And at the last, when they could no longer ignore the incredible fact
that the afternoon was gone, that only a golden western sky behind the
flat, blue mass of the hills remained to tell of the vanished sunlight,
they rose reluctantly, hesitant. He had taken her two hands to help her
to her feet. In the grayness of the twilight they looked at each other,
and she felt the approach of a moment tremendous, irrevocable.

He was drawing her closer. She felt, with the pull of his hands, an
urging within herself, a compulsion like a strong current, sweeping her
away, merging her with something unknown, vast, beautifully terrible.
Suddenly, in a panic, pushing him blindly away, she heard herself
saying, "No--no! Please--" The tension of his arms relaxed.

"All right--if you don't want--I didn't mean--" he stammered. Their
hands clung for a moment, uncertainly, then dropped apart. They
stumbled down the dusky trail and drove home almost in silence.

       *       *       *       *       *

Spring came capriciously that next year. She smiled unexpectedly
upon the hills through long days of golden sunshine, coaxing wild
flowers from the damp earth and swelling buds with her warm promise.
She retreated again behind cold skies, abandoning eager petals and
sap-filled twigs to the chill desolation of rain and the bitterness of
frost.

Farmers trudging behind their plows felt her coming in the stir of the
scented air, in the responsiveness of the springy soil and, looking up
at the sparkling skies, felt a warmth in their own veins even while
they shook their heads doubtfully. And rising in the dawns they tramped
the orchard rows, bending tips of branches between anxious fingers,
pausing to cut open a few buds on their calloused palms.

But to Helen the days were like notes in a melody. Linnet's songs and
sunshine streaming through the attic windows or gray panes and rain
on the roof were one to her. She woke to either as to a holiday. She
slipped from beneath the patchwork quilt into a cold room and dressed
with shivering fingers, hardly hearing Mabel's drowsy protests at being
waked so early. Life was too good to be wasted in sleep. She seemed
made of energy as she ran down the steep stairs to the kitchen. It
swelled in her veins as a river frets against its banks in the spring
floods.

Every sight and sound struck upon her senses with a new freshness.
There was exhilaration in the bite of cold water on her skin when she
washed in the tin basin on the bench by the door, and the smell of
coffee and frying salt pork was good. She sang while she spread the red
table-cloth on the kitchen table and set out the cracked plates.

She sang:

    "You're as welcome as the flowers in Ma-a-ay,
    And I--love you in the same o-o-old way."

It seemed to her that she was caroling aloud poetry so exquisite that
all its meaning escaped the dull ears about her. She walked among them,
alone, wrapped in a glory they could not perceive.

Even her mother's tight-lipped anxiety did not quite break through her
happy absorption. Her mother worked silently, stepping heavily about
the kitchen, now and then glancing through the window toward the barn.
When her husband came clumping up the path and stopped at the back
steps to scrape the mud from his boots, she went to the door and opened
it, saying almost harshly, "Well?"

He said nothing, continuing for a moment to knock a boot heel against
the edge of the step. Then he came slowly in, and began to dip water
from the water pail into the wash-basin. The slump of his body in the
sweat-stained overalls expressed nothing but weariness.

"I guess last night settled it," he said. "We won't get enough of a
crop to pay to pick it. Outa twenty buds I cut on the south slope only
four of 'em wasn't black."

His wife went back to the stove and turned the salt pork, holding
her head back from the spatters. "What're we going to do about the
mortgage?" The question filled a long silence. Helen's song was hushed,
though the echoes of it still went on in some secret place within her,
safe there even from this calamity.

"Same as we've always done, I guess," her father answered at last,
lifting a dripping face and reaching for the roller towel. "See if I
can get young Mason to renew it."

"Well, he will. Surely he will," Helen said. Her tone of cheerfulness
was like a slender shaft splintering against a stone wall. "And there
must be _some_ fruit left. If there isn't much of a crop what we do get
ought to bring pretty good prices, too."

"You're right it ought to," her father replied bitterly. "A good crop
never brings 'em."

"Well, anyway, I'm through school now, and I'll be doing something,"
Helen said. She had no clear idea what it would be, but suddenly she
felt in her youth and happiness a strength that her discouraged father
and mother did not have. For the first time they seemed to her old and
worn, exhausted by an unequal struggle, and she felt that she could
take them up in her arms and carry them triumphantly to comfort and
peace.

"Eat your breakfast and don't talk nonsense," her father said.

But her victorious mood revived while she washed the dishes. She felt
older, stronger, and more confident than she had ever been. The news of
the killing frost, which depressed her mother and quieted even Mabel's
usual rebellion at having to help with the kitchen work, was to Helen
a call to action. She splashed the dishes through the soapy water so
swiftly that Mabel was aggrieved.

"You know I can't keep up," she complained. "It's bad enough to have
the frost and never be able to get anything decent, and stick here in
this old kitchen all the time, without having you act mean, too."

"Oh, don't start whining!" Helen began. They always quarreled about
the dishes. "I'd like to know who did every smitch of work yesterday,
while you went chasing off." But looking down at Mabel's sullen little
face, she felt a wave of compassion. Poor little Mabel, whose whole
heart had been set on a new dress this summer, who didn't have anything
else to make her happy! "I don't mean to be mean to you, Mabel," she
said. She put an arm around the thin, angular shoulders. "Never mind,
everything'll be all right, somehow."

That afternoon when the ironing was finished she dressed in her pink
gingham and best shoes. She was going to town for the mail, she
explained to her mother, and when her sister said, "Why, you went day
before yesterday!" she replied, "Well, I guess I'll just go to town,
anyway. I feel like walking somewhere."

Her mother apparently accepted the explanation without further thought.
The blindness of other people astonished Helen. It seemed to her that
every blade of grass in the fields, every scrap of white cloud in the
sky, knew that she was going to see Paul. The roadside cried it aloud
to her.

She let her hand rest a moment on the gate as she went through. It
was the gate on which they leaned when he brought her home from church
on Sunday nights. She could feel his presence there still; she could
almost see the dark mass of his shoulders against the starry sky, and
the white blur of his face.

The long lane by Peterson's meadow was crowded with memories of him.
Here they had stopped to gather poppies; there, just beside the gray
stone, he had knelt one day to tie her shoe. On the little bridge
shaded by the oak-trees they always stopped to lean on the rail and
watch their reflections shot across by ripples of light in the stream
below. She was dazzled by the beauty of the world as she went by all
these places. The sky was blue. It was a revelation to her. She had
never known that skies were blue with that heart-shaking blueness or
that hills held golden lights and violet shadows on their green slopes.
She had never seen that shadows in the late afternoon were purple as
grapes, and that the very air held a faint tinge of orange light. It
seemed to her that she had been blind all her life.

She stood some time on the little bridge, looking at all this
loveliness, and she said his name to herself, under her breath "Paul."
A quiver ran along her nerves at the sound of it.

He would be busy handling baggage at the station when Number Five came
in. She thought of his sturdy shoulders in the blue work-shirt, the
smooth forehead under his ragged cap, the straight-looking blue eyes
and firm lips. She would stand a little apart, by the window where the
telegraph-keys were clicking, and he would pass, pushing a hand-truck
through the crowd on the platform. Their eyes would meet, and the look
would be like a bond subtly uniting them in an intimacy unperceived by
the oblivious people who jostled them. Then she would go away, walking
slowly through the town, and he would overtake her on his way home to
supper. She could tell him, then, about the frost. Her thoughts went no
further than that. They stopped with Paul.

But before she reached his house she saw Sammy Harner frolicking in
the road, hilarious in the first spring freedom of going barefoot. He
skipped from side to side, his wide straw hat flapping; he shied a
stone at a bird; he whistled shrilly between his teeth. When he saw
her he sobered quickly and came trotting down the road, reaching her,
panting.

"I was coming out to your house just 's fast as I could," he said. "I
got a note for you." He sought anxiously in his pockets, found it in
the crown of his hat. "He gave me a nickel, and said to wait if they's
an answer."

She saw that his eyes were fixed curiously on her hands, which shook
so with excitement that she could hardly tear the railway company's
yellow envelope. She read:

    _Dear Friend Helen_:

    I have got a new job and I have to go to Ripley to-night where I
    am going to work. I would like to see you before I go, as I do not
    know when I can come back, but probably not for a long time. I did
    not know I was going till this afternoon and I have to go on the
    Cannonball. Can you meet me about eight o'clock by the bridge? I
    have to pack yet and I am afraid I cannot get time to come out to
    your house and I want to see you very much. Please answer by Sammy.

                                                     YOUR FRIEND, PAUL.

Sammy's interested gaze had shifted from her hands to her face. It
rested on her like an unbearable light. She could not think with those
calm observant eyes upon her. She must think. What must she think
about? Oh, yes, an answer. A pencil. She did not have a pencil.

"Tell him I didn't have a pencil," she said. "Tell him I said, 'Yes.'"
And as Sammy still lingered, watching her with unashamed curiosity, she
added sharply, "Hurry! Hurry up now!"

It was a relief to sit down, when at last Sammy had disappeared around
the bend in the road. The whirling world seemed to settle somewhat into
place then. She had never thought of Paul's going away. She wondered
dully if it were a good job, and if he were glad to go.




                              CHAPTER III


She came down the road again a little after seven o'clock. It was
another cold night, and the stars glittered frostily in a sky almost as
black as the hills. The road lost itself in darkness before her, and
the fields stretched out into a darkness that seemed illimitable, as
endless as the sky. She felt herself part of the night and the cold.

For an eternity she walked up and down the road, waiting. Once she
went as far as the top of the hill beyond the bridge, and saw shining
against the blackness the yellow lights of his house. She looked at
them for a long time. She thought that she would watch them until he
came out. But she was driven to walking up and down, up and down,
stumbling in the ruts of the road. At last she saw him coming, and
stood still in the pool of darkness under the oaks until he reached her.

"Helen?" he said uncertainly. "Is it you?"

"Yes," she answered. Her throat ached.

"I came as quick as I could," he said. Somehow she knew that his throat
ached, too. They moved to the little railing of the bridge and stood
trying to see each other's faces in the gloom. "Are you cold?" he asked.

"No," she said. She saw then that the shawl had slipped from her
shoulders and was dragging over one arm. The wind fluttered it, and her
hands were clumsy, trying to pull it back into place.

"Here," he was taking off his coat. "No," she said again. But she let
him wrap half the coat around her. They stood close together in the
folds of it. The chilly wind flowed around them like water, and the
warmth of their trembling bodies made a little island of cosiness in a
sea of cold.

"I got to go," he said. "It's a good job. Fifty dollars a month. I got
to support mother, you know. Her money's pretty nearly gone already,
and she spent a lot putting me through school. I just got to go. I
wish--I wish I didn't have to."

She tried to hold her lips steady.

"It's all right," she said. "I'm glad you got a good job."

"You mean you aren't going to miss me when I'm gone?"

"Yes, I'll miss you."

"I'm going to miss you an awful lot," he said huskily. "You going to
write to me?"

"Yes, I'll write if you will."

"You aren't going to forget me--you aren't going to get to going with
anybody else--are you?"

She could not answer. The trembling that shook them carried them beyond
speech. Wind and darkness melted together in a rushing flood around
them. The ache in her throat dissolved into tears, and they clung
together, cheek against hot cheek, in voiceless misery.

"Oh, Helen! Oh, Helen!" She was crushed against the beating of his
heart, his arms hurt her. She wanted them to hurt her. "You're
so--you're so--sweet!" he stammered, and gropingly they found each
other's lips.

Words came back to her after a time.

"I don't want you to go away," she sobbed.

His arms tightened around her, then slowly relaxed. His chin lifted,
and she knew that his mouth was setting into its firm lines again.

"I got to," he said. The finality of the words was like something solid
beneath their feet once more.

"Of course--I didn't mean--" She moved a little away from him,
smoothing her hair with a shaking hand. A new solemnity had descended
upon them both. They felt dimly that life had changed for them, that it
would never be the same again.

"I got to think about things," he said.

"Yes--I know."

"There's mother. Fifty dollars a month. We just can't--"

Tears were welling slowly from her eyes and running down her cheeks.
She was not able to stop them.

"No," she said. "I've got to do something to help at home, too." She
groped for the shawl at her feet. He picked it up and wrapped it
carefully around her.

They walked up and down in the starlight, trying to talk soberly,
feeling very old and sad, a weight on their hearts. Ripley was a
station in the San Joaquin valley, he told her. He was going to be
night operator there. He could not keep a shade of self-importance
from his voice, but he explained conscientiously that there would not
be much telegraphing. Very few train orders were sent there at night.
But it was a good job for a beginner and pretty soon maybe he would
be able to get a better one. Say, when he was twenty or twenty-one
seventy-five dollars a month perhaps. It wouldn't be long to wait. They
were clinging together again.

"You--we mustn't," she said.

"It's all right--just one--when you're engaged." She sobbed on his
shoulder, and their kisses were salty with tears.

He left her at her gate. The memory of all the times they had stood
there was the last unbearable pain. They held each other tight, without
speaking.

"You--haven't said--tell me you--love me," he stammered after a long
time.

"I love you," she said, as though it were a sacrament. He was silent
for another moment, and in the dim starlight she felt rather than saw
a strange, half-terrifying expression on his face.

"Will you go away with me--right now--and marry me--if I ask you to?"
His voice was hoarse.

She felt that she was taking all she was or could be in her cupped
hands and offering it to him.

"Yes," she said.

His whole body shook with a long sob. He tried to say something,
choking, tearing himself roughly away from her. She saw him going down
the road, almost running, and then the darkness hid him.

       *       *       *       *       *

In the days that followed it seemed to her that she could have borne
the separation better if she had not been left behind. He had gone down
the shining lines of track beyond Cherokee Hill into a vague big world
that baffled her thoughts. He wrote that he had been in San Francisco
and taken a ride on a sight-seeing car. It was a splendid place, he
said; he wished she could see the things he saw. He had seen Chinatown,
the Presidio, the beach, and Seal Rocks. Then he had gone on to Ripley,
which wasn't much like Masonville. He was well, and hoped she was, and
he thought of her every day and was hers lovingly. Paul. But she felt
that she was losing touch with him, and when she contemplated two or
three long years of waiting she felt that she would lose him entirely.
She thought again of that young couple at Rollo, and pangs of envy
were added to the misery in which she was living.

He had been gone two weeks when she announced to her mother that she
was going to be a telegraph-operator. She held to the determination
with a tenacity that surprised even herself. She argued, she pleaded,
she pointed out the wages she would earn, the money she could send
home. There was a notice in the Masonville weekly paper, advertising a
school of telegraphy in Sacramento, saying: "Operators in great demand.
Graduates earn $75 to $100 a month up." She wrote to that school, and
immediately a reply came, assuring her that she could learn in three
months, that railroad and telegraph companies were clamoring for
operators, that the school guaranteed all its graduates good positions.
The tuition was fifty dollars.

Her father said he guessed that settled it.

But in the end she won. When he renewed the mortgage he borrowed
another hundred dollars from the bank. Fifty dollars seemed a fortune
on which to live for three months. Her mother and she went over her
clothes together, and her mother gave her the telescope-bag in which to
pack them.

An awkward intimacy grew up between the two while they worked. Her
mother said it was just as well for her to have a good job for a while.
Maybe she wouldn't make a fool of herself, getting married before she
knew her own mind. Helen said nothing. She felt that it was not easy to
talk with one's mother about things like getting married.

Her mother said one other thing that stayed in her mind, perhaps
because of its indefiniteness, perhaps because of her mother's
embarrassment when she said it, an embarrassment that made them both
constrained.

"There's something I got to say to you, Helen," she said, keeping her
eyes on the waist she was ironing and flushing hotly. "Your father's
still against this idea of your going away. He says first thing we know
we'll have you back on our hands, in trouble. Now I want you should
promise me if anything comes up that looks like it wasn't just right,
you let me know right away, and I'll come straight down to Trenton and
get you. I'm going to be worried about you, off alone in a city like
that."

She promised quickly, uncertainly, and her mother began in a hurry to
talk of something else. Mrs. Updike, who lived on the next farm, was
going down to San Francisco to visit her sister. She would take Helen
as far as Sacramento and see her settled there. Helen must be sure to
eat her meals regularly and keep her clothes mended and write every
week and study hard. She promised all those things.

There was a flurry on the last morning. Between tears and excitement,
Mabel was half hysterical, Tommy kept getting in the way, her mother
unpacked the bag a dozen times to be sure that nothing was left out.
They all drove to town, crowded into the two-seated light wagon, and
there was another flurry at the station when the train came in. She
hugged them all awkwardly, smiling with tears in her eyes. She felt for
the first time how much she loved them.

Until the train rounded the curve south of town she gazed back at
Masonville and the little yellow station where Paul had worked. Then
she settled back against red velvet cushions to watch unfamiliar trees
and hills flashing backward past the windows. She had an excited sense
of adventure, wondering what the school would be like, promising
herself again to study hard. She and Mrs. Updike worried at intervals,
fearing lest by some mischance Mr. Weeks, the manager of the school,
would fail to meet them at the Sacramento station. They wore bits of
red yarn in their buttonholes so that he would recognize them.

He was waiting when the train stopped. He was a thin, well-dressed
man, with a young face that seemed oddly old, like a half-ripe apple
withered. He hurried them through noisy, bustling streets, on and off
street-cars, up a stairway at last to the school.

There were two rooms, a small one, which was the office, and a larger
one, bare and not very clean, lighted by two high windows looking out
on an alley. In the large room were half a dozen tables, each with
a telegraph-sounder and key upon it. There was no one there at the
moment, Mr. Weeks explained, because it was Saturday afternoon. The
school usually did no business on Saturday afternoons, but he would
make an exception for Helen. If she liked, he said briskly, she could
pay him the tuition now, and begin her studies early Monday morning.
He was sure she would be a good operator, and he guaranteed her a
good position when she graduated. He would even give her a written
guarantee, if she wished. But she did not ask for that. It would have
seemed to imply a doubt of Mr. Weeks' good faith.

Mrs. Updike, panting from climbing the stairs and nervous with anxiety
about catching her train, asked him about rooms. Providentially, he
knew a very good one and cheap, next door to the school. He was kind
enough to take them to see it.

There were a number of rooms in a row, all opening on a long hallway
reached by stairs from the street. They were kept by Mrs. Brown, who
managed the restaurant down-stairs. She was a sallow little woman, with
very bright brown eyes and yellow hair. She talked continuously in a
light, mechanically gay voice, making quick movements with her hands
and moving about the room with a whisking of silk petticoats, driven,
it seemed, by an intensity of energy almost feverish.

The room rented for six dollars a month. It had a large bow-window
overlooking the street, gaily flowered wall-paper, a red carpet, a big
wooden bed, a wash-stand with pitcher and bowl, and two rocking-chairs.
At the end of the long hall was a bathroom with a white tub in it, the
first Helen had seen. There was something metropolitan about that tub;
a bath in it would be an event far different from the Saturday night
scrubs in the tin wash-tub at home. And she could eat in the restaurant
below; very good meals for twenty cents, or even for less if she wanted
to buy a meal-ticket.

"I guess it's as good as you can do," said Mrs. Updike.

"I think it's lovely," Helen said.

So it was settled. Helen gave Mrs. Brown six dollars, and she whisked
away after saying: "I'm sure I hope you'll like it, dearie, and if
there's anything you want, you let me know. I sleep right in the next
room, so nothing's going to bother you, and if you get lonesome, just
come and knock on my door."

Then Mrs. Updike, with a hasty farewell peck at her cheek, hurried
away to catch her train, Mr. Weeks going with her to take her to the
station, and Helen was left alone.

She locked her door first, and counted her money, feeling very
businesslike. Then she unpacked her bag and put away her things,
pausing now and then to look around the room that was hers. It seemed
very large and luxurious. She felt a pleasant sense of responsibility
when everything was neatly in order and she stood at the window,
looking down the street to the corner where at intervals she saw
street-cars passing. She promised herself to work very hard, and to pay
back soon the money her father had lent her, with interest.

Then she thought, smiling, that in a little while she would go
down-stairs and eat supper in a restaurant, and then she would buy a
tablet and pencil and, coming back to this beautiful room, she would
sit down all alone and write a letter to Paul.




                              CHAPTER IV


The thought of Paul was the one clear reality in Helen's life while she
blundered through the bewilderments of the first months in Sacramento.
It was the only thing that warmed her in the midst of the strangeness
that surrounded her like a thin, cold fog.

There was the school. She did not know what she had expected, but she
felt vaguely that she had not found it. Faithfully every morning at
eight o'clock she was at her table in the dingy back room, struggling
to translate the dots and dashes of the Morse alphabet into crisp, even
clicks of the sounder. There were three other pupils, farm boys who
moved their necks uncomfortably in stiff collars and reddened when they
looked at her.

There was a wire from that room into the front office. Sometimes its
sounder opened, and they knew that Mr. Weeks was going to send them
something to copy. They moved to that table eagerly. There were days
when the sounder did not click again, and after a while one of the boys
would tiptoe to the office and report that Mr. Weeks was asleep. On
other days the sounder would tap for a long time meaninglessly, while
they looked at each other in bewilderment. Then it would make a few
shaky letters and stop and make a few more.

Then for several days Mr. Weeks would not come to the school at all.
They sank into a kind of stupor, sitting in the close, warm room, while
flies buzzed on the window-pane. Helen's moist finger-tips stuck to the
hard rubber of the key; it was an effort to remember the alphabet. But
she kept at work doggedly, knowing how much depended upon her success.
Always before her was the vision of the station where she would work
with Paul, a little yellow station with housekeeping rooms up-stairs.
She thought, too, of the debt she owed her father, and the help she
could give him later when she was earning money.

Bit by bit she learned a little about the other pupils. Two of them had
come down from Mendocino County together. They had worked two summers
to earn the money, and yet they had been able to save only seventy-five
dollars for the tuition. However, they had been sharp enough to
persuade Mr. Weeks to take them for that sum. They lived together in
one room, and cooked their meals over the gas-jet. It was one of them
who asked Helen if she knew that gas would kill a person.

"If you turned it on for a long time and set fire to it, I suppose it
would burn you up," she said doubtfully.

"I don't mean that way," he informed her, excited. "It kills you if
you just breathe it long enough. It's poison." After that she looked
with terrified respect at the gas-jet in her room, and was always very
careful to turn it off tightly.

The other boy had a more knowing air and smoked cigarettes. He
swaggered a little, giving them to understand that he was a man of
the world and knew all the wickedness of the city. He looked at Helen
with eyes she did not like, and once asked her to go to a show with
him. Although she was very lonely and had never seen a show in a real
theater, she refused. She felt that Paul would not like her to go. At
the end of three months in Sacramento these were the only people she
knew, except Mrs. Brown.

She felt that she would like Mrs. Brown if she knew her better. Her
shyness kept her from saying more than "Good evening," when she handed
her meal-ticket over the restaurant counter to be punched, and for some
inexplicable reason Mrs. Brown seemed shy with her. It was her own
fault, Helen thought; Mrs. Brown laughed and talked gaily with the men
customers, cajoling them into buying cigars and chewing-gum from her
little stock.

Helen speculated about Mr. Brown. She never saw him; she felt quite
definitely that he was not alive. Yet Mrs. Brown often looked at her
wide wedding-ring, turning it on her finger as if she were not quite
accustomed to wearing it. A widow, and so young! Helen's heart ached at
the thought of that brief romance. Mrs. Brown's thin figure and bright
yellow hair were those of a girl; only her eyes were old. It must be
grief that had given them that hard, weary look. Helen smiled at her
wistfully over the counter, longing to express her friendliness and
sympathy. But Mrs. Brown's manner always baffled her.

These meetings were not frequent. Helen tried to make her three-dollar
meal ticket last a month, and that meant that only five times a week
she could sit in state, eating warm food in an atmosphere thick with
smells of coffee and stew and hamburger steak. She had learned that
cinnamon rolls could be bought for half price on Saturday nights, and
she kept a bag of them in her room, and some fruit. This made her a
little uneasy when she saw Mrs. Brown's anxious eye on the vacant
tables; she felt that she was defrauding Mrs. Brown by eating in her
room.

Mrs. Brown worked very hard, Helen knew. It was she who swept the hall
and kept the rooms in order. She did not do it very well, but Helen
saw her sometimes in the evenings working at it. She swept with quick,
feverish strokes. Her yellow hair straggled over her face; her high
heels clicked on the floor; her petticoats made a whisking sound. There
was something piteous about her, as there is about a little trained
animal on the stage, set to do tasks for which it is not fitted. Helen
stole down the hallway at night, taking the broom from its corner as if
she was committing a theft, and surreptitiously swept and dusted her
own room, so that Mrs. Brown would not have to do it.

She wished that it took more time. When she had finished there was
nothing to do but sit at her window and look down at the street. People
went up and down, strolling leisurely in the warm summer evening. She
saw girls in dainty dresses, walking about in groups, and the sight
increased her loneliness. Buggies went by; a man with his wife and
children out driving, a girl and her sweetheart. At the corner there
was the clanging of street-cars, and she watched to see them passing,
brightly lighted, filled with people. Once in a while she saw an
automobile, and her breath quickened, she leaned from the window until
it was out of sight. She felt then the charm of the city, with its
crowds, its glitter, its strange, hurried life.

Two young men passed often down that street in an automobile. They
looked up at her window when they went by and slowed the machine. If
she were leaning on the sill, they waved to her and shouted gaily. She
always pretended that she had not seen them, and drew back, but she
watched for the machine to pass again. It seemed to be a link between
her and all that exciting life from which she was shut out. She would
have liked to know those young men.

She sat at the window one evening near the end of the three months
that she had planned to spend in the telegraph school. Paul's picture
was in her hand. He had had it taken for her in Ripley. It was a
beautiful, shiny picture, cabinet size, showing him against a tropical
background of palms and ferns. He had taken off a derby hat, which he
held self-consciously; his stocky figure wore an air of prosperity in
an unfamiliar suit.

She brooded upon the firm line of his chin, the clean-cut lips, the
smooth forehead from which the hair was brushed back slickly. His neck
was turned so that his eyes did not quite meet hers. It was baffling,
that aloof gaze; it hurt a little. She wished that he would look at
her. She felt that the picture would help her more if he would, and she
needed help.

Mr. Weeks had returned from one of his long absences that day, and
she had taken courage to ask him about a job. He had listened while
she stood beside his desk, stammering out her worry and her need. Her
money was almost gone; she thought she telegraphed pretty well, she
had studied hard. She watched his shaking hand fumbling with some
papers on his desk, and felt pityingly that she should not bother him
when he was sick. But desperation drove her on. She did not suspect
the truth until he looked up at her with reddened eyes and answered
incoherently. Then she saw that he was drunk.

Her shock of loathing came upon her in a wave of nausea. She trembled
so that she could hardly get down the stairs, and she had walked a long
time in the clean sunshine before the full realization of what it meant
chilled her. She sat now confronting that realization.

She had only two dollars, a half-used meal-ticket, and a week's rent
paid in advance. She saw clearly that she could hope for nothing from
the telegraph school. It did not occur to her to blame anybody. Her
mind ran desperately from thought to thought, like a caged creature
seeking escape between iron bars.

She could not go home. She could not live there again, defeated,
knowing day by day that she had added a hundred dollars to the
mortgage. She had told Paul so confidently that she could do as well as
a boy if she had the chance, and she had had the chance. He could not
help her. The street below was full of happy people going by, absorbed
in their own concerns, careless of hers.

She had not seen the automobile with the two young men in it until it
stopped across the street. Even then she saw it dimly with dull eyes.
But the two young men were looking up at her window, talking together,
looking up again. They were getting out. They crossed the street. She
heard their voices below, and a moment later her heart began to thump.
They were coming up the stairs.

Something was going to happen. At last something was going to break the
terrible loneliness and deadness. She stood listening, one hand at her
throat, alert, breathless.
